Whether they were pushed or left of their own accord, soon three of the Whitney’s top curators, Thelma Golden, Lisa Phillips, and Elisabeth Sussman, were gone.
Maybe, but the show’s intrepid curator, Thelma Golden, candidly admits that much of the art in “Black Romantic” is “beautiful in a very unchallenging way” (the reverse is truer: It is ordinary in a challenging way), and evinces high degrees of “overwrought sentiment” and “strident essentialism”.
The energy of “Freestyle,” the Studio Museum in Harlem’s exhibition of 28 African American artists curated by Thelma Golden, is greater than the show itself.
Participants included Nicholas Serota, director of the Tate; MOMA’s Robert Storr; Paul Shimmel from L.A. MOCA; Kathy Halbreich, director of the Walker Art Center; Thelma Golden, deputy director of the Studio Museum; Philadelphia Museum director Anne d’Harnoncourt; peripatetic international curating machine and Antonin Artaud look-alike Hans-Ulrich Obrist; and Dave Hickey, who wears his curator’s hat with the same rebel abandon he dons his critic’s hat.
As curated by Studio Museum in Harlem director Thelma Golden, this gripping exhibition of Kenyan painter Michael Armitage tells us that early- and mid-modernist tropes are being deployed in ways that tell new narratives, which in turn revitalize the tropes themselves.
This project was initiated beautifully by curators like Marcia Tucker, Alanna Heiss, Okwui Enwezor, Thelma Golden, Catherine David, Massimiliano Gioni, and countless others — a project brilliantly continued in the Obama years.
Hilton Kramer — referring to the biennial’s one African-American curator, Thelma Golden — said there was an “awful logic in having Ms. Golden on the curatorial team”.
IDENTITY FLOODS INTO THE ART WORLD1993–1999Led by Thelma Golden, the 1993 biennial’s one black curator.
(Thelma Golden, Holly Block, and Claudia Gould, of course, are doing bang-up work at the Studio Museum of Harlem, the Bronx Museum, and the Jewish Museum, respectively.
No sooner had they been named, however, than Whitney director Adam Weinberg pulled back the reins, announcing that the two would be “overseen” by the museum’s chief curator, Donna De Salvo, and that they’d “worked with” the advisers Thelma Golden, Bill Horrigan, and Linda Norden.
