Perhaps I’m envious, but I couldn’t help noticing that of the 150 so-called “power people” listed in this month’s silly issues of Art & Auction and ArtReview, amid the dozens of curators, museum mucky-mucks, money people, and art advisers, including the composer of Cats, there were just 10 artists (Hockney, Johns, Richter, Gursky, Hirst, and Schnabel, among them), and only one art critic, windbag Time writer Robert Hughes.
Instead, Rockwell exhibits a canny sense of caricature, costume, props, and narrative—what Robert Hughes calls giving “every hair of every mutt its share of picturesque completeness”.
” Robert Hughes barely contains his homophobia, branding Warhol “abnormal,” “homosexual,” and “malevolent” in the same sentence.
Even Robert Hughes liked it.
He was thought of as overexposed and over-the-hill — someone Robert Hughes disdained as “abnormal,” “homosexual,” and “malevolent” in one sentence.
The work was panned as “shallow” and “boring” by the Times’ Hilton Kramer, while in Time, Robert Hughes said they “hardly exist within the sphere of aesthetic debate”.
Beyond the Veil Curated by Adam Knight Olsen GruinNo doubt many of the bigwigs in town for all the art stars, megagalleries and super-auctions, missed maybe the best secret show in New York at the moment, this six-artist exhibition of Australian Aboriginal women painters curated by the president of the Aboriginal Art Association of Australia — a show that gives us a breathtaking small survey of what critic Robert Hughes (who in almost every case except this I disagreed with) called “the last great art movement of the twentieth century”.
Robert Hughes said the show was “a fiesta of whining” and “preachy and political”.
Robert Hughes’s Time review was subtitled “A Fiesta of Whining”.
Robert Hughes saw strains of Stalinism.
—Robert Hughes, quoted in the Telegraph, 2008.
Robert Hughes lambasted his art as “self-parody”.
Never one to spare hyperbole, Robert Hughes wrote, “This painter of buggery, sadism, dread, and death-vomit has emerged as the toughest, the most implacable, lyric artist in late-twentieth-century England, perhaps in all the world”.
Never one to spare hyperbole, Robert Hughes wrote, "This painter of buggery, sadism, dread, and death-vomit has emerged as the toughest, the most implacable, lyric artist in late-20th-century England, perhaps in all the world".
