Or Artists Space could think about 22nd Street, or Matthew Higgs could work wonders here for White Columns.
Matthew Higgs names three women artists, and Ann Goldstein and Kelsey two, but five others only manage one each.
In Chelsea, the Kitchen has sprung to life under Debra Singer, while the dynamic director of White Columns, Matthew Higgs, fires a shot across everyone’s bow, asserting, “I want to change the New York art world in 24 months”.
The Whitney is putting its house in order, White Columns has hired the savvy Matthew Higgs as director, and Art-forum and Frieze—both with new editors—are already more rigorous and relevant.
There are ingenious bark drawings by Pygmy women of the Ituri Rainforest at Nolan/Eckman, some visionary zingers made by self-taught Russians at Galerie St. Étienne, the studies of Marsden Hartley at Babcock, the simple but sweet found book pages of Matthew Higgs at Murray Guy, impressive shows by Christian Holstad and Anthony Burdin at Daniel Reich and Maccarone respectively, and a superb survey of Thomas Nozkowski’s drawings at the New York Studio School (8 West 8th Street, through March 1) that tracks this late bloomer’s steadfast development from tardy postminimalist to explorer of form to the consummate draftsman and balancer of tactfulness, tightness, and offhandedness he has become.
English artist and art critic Matthew Higgs wrote that the sector is headed for “inevitable collapse”.
Many say they hate Chelsea, that the galleries are too slick; British artist-critic Matthew Higgs dubs them “duller,” “regimented,” and ominously facing “inevitable collapse”.
Wong’s only other New York appearance was in a group show at White Columns organized by another of those incubators of original vision, Matthew Higgs — who, it seems, had seen Wong’s work on the Instagram feed of Cheim & Read’s John Cheim.
Today—History by Rachel CorbettThis project was assembled from interviews with John Ahearn, Dennis Barrie, Frank Benson, Homi Bhabha, Claire Bishop, Francesco Bonami, AA Bronson, Susan Cahan, Dan Cameron, Rodriguez Calero, Leidy Churchman, Bridget R. Cooks, Lauren Cornell, Holland Cotter, Douglas Crimp, Vaginal Davis, Kimberly Drew, Grace Dunham, Peter Eleey, Darby English, Okwui Enwezor, Awol Erizku, Teresita Fernández, Karen Finley, Hal Foster, Coco Fusco, Massimiliano Gioni, Alison Gingeras, RoseLee Goldberg, Claudia Gould, Thyrza Nichols Goodeve, Paul Ha, K8 Hardy, Steven P. Henry, Dave Hickey, Matthew Higgs, Laura Hoptman, Chrissie Iles, Jay Z, Rashid Johnson, Pepe Karmel, Jennifer Kidwell, Christopher Y. Lew, Kalup Linzy, Glenn Lowry, Jessica Lynne, Daniel J. Martinez, Steven Henry Madoff, Carrie Moyer, Jayson Musson, Shirin Neshat, Linda Norden, Catherine Opie, Clifford Owens, Ann Philbin, Lisa Phillips, Pope.
The show was organized by the museum’s Catherine Morris and another New York visionary in his own right, Matthew Higgs, artist and director of White Columns, New York.
Which brings us to White Columns’ current magnificent and munificent director, Matthew Higgs — also a curator, artist, DJ, and producer from an early age.
Run by Elizabeth Dee, Darren Flock, Jayne Drost, and Laura Mitterrand, along with Matthew Higgs, it’s the best of the trio, because it makes you feel that the forces of art, community, activism, and group action — along with the inevitable moneymaking instincts — are alive, well, and flourishing.
Run by Elizabeth Dee, Darren Flock, Jayne Drost and Laura Mitterrand, along with Matthew Higgs, it’s the best of the trio, because it makes you feel that the forces of art, community, activism and group action -- along with the inevitable moneymaking instincts -- are alive, well, and flourishing.
In Chelsea, the Kitchen has sprung to life under Debra Singer, while the dynamic director of White Columns, Matthew Higgs, fires a shot across everyone's bow, asserting, "I want to change the New York art world in 24 months".
