Forget about oddballs and kooks like Morandi and Florine Stettheimer; there’s no Adolf Wolfli, Bill Traylor, Martin Ramirez, or Henry Darger, all of whom rank among the greatest artists of the 20th century.
Also sadly missing are eccentrics and visionaries like Christian Schad, Florine Stettheimer, Charles Burchfield, and Martin Ramirez.
If forced to judge him by this designation, I’d place Wölfli behind only Martin Ramirez and Bill Traylor, and just ahead of Darger.
Brilliant outsiders like Henry Darger, Martin Ramirez, Adolf Wolfli, and Bill Traylor come to mind, as do graphic masters like Piranesi, Escher, Crumb, and Raymond Pettibon (who also paints walls).
The idea that occurred to me was that during the 1940s some of the most creative American outsider artists of the century were working or beginning to work, among them Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, A.G. Rizzoli, and Bill Traylor, a freed slave.
First, to see American museums merge insider and outsider, so that when I go to MoMA and the Whitney I see the visionary work of Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Bill Traylor, James Castle, and Thomas Chambers next to the artists of the modernist canon.
In the past decade, AFAM has mounted shows of some of the greatest artists of the twentieth century, including Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Adolf Wolfli, and Thomas Chambers.
In the last decade as AFAM’s curator, Anderson, a brilliant scholar, organized extraordinary exhibitions of Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, and Adolf Wolfli — three of the greatest artists of the 20th century.
A room of Martin Ramirez would establish that he was maybe the greatest so-called “outsider” artist to ever work in our country.
First, to see American museums merge insider and outsider, so that when I go to MoMA and the Whitney I see the visionary work of Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Bill Traylor, James Castle and Thomas Chambers next to the artists of the modernist canon.
In the past decade, AFAM has mounted shows of some of the greatest artists of the 20th century, including Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Adolf Wolfli and Thomas Chambers.
Forget about oddballs and kooks like Morandi and Florine Stettheimer; there's no Adolf Wolfli, Bill Traylor, Martin Ramirez or Henry Darger, all of whom rank among the greatest artists of the 20th century.
