Curator Massimiliano Gioni ruefully calls them “the ultimate form of the avant-garde: the corporate avant-garde”.
In their catalog essays, the 10 writers, including Johanna Burton, Brian Sholis, and Massimiliano Gioni, concur.
As Matthew Barney plumbs the mystic depths of his own inner kingdom, Schneider explores anxiety—so remarkably that curator Massimiliano Gioni dubbed him “the Richard Serra of fear”.
This project was initiated beautifully by curators like Marcia Tucker, Alanna Heiss, Okwui Enwezor, Thelma Golden, Catherine David, Massimiliano Gioni, and countless others — a project brilliantly continued in the Obama years.
Organized by a superb team overseen by Massimiliano Gioni, “The Keeper” is a museum full of museums, possible encyclopedias, indexes of other orders, and miniature models of pain.
Today—History by Rachel CorbettThis project was assembled from interviews with John Ahearn, Dennis Barrie, Frank Benson, Homi Bhabha, Claire Bishop, Francesco Bonami, AA Bronson, Susan Cahan, Dan Cameron, Rodriguez Calero, Leidy Churchman, Bridget R. Cooks, Lauren Cornell, Holland Cotter, Douglas Crimp, Vaginal Davis, Kimberly Drew, Grace Dunham, Peter Eleey, Darby English, Okwui Enwezor, Awol Erizku, Teresita Fernández, Karen Finley, Hal Foster, Coco Fusco, Massimiliano Gioni, Alison Gingeras, RoseLee Goldberg, Claudia Gould, Thyrza Nichols Goodeve, Paul Ha, K8 Hardy, Steven P. Henry, Dave Hickey, Matthew Higgs, Laura Hoptman, Chrissie Iles, Jay Z, Rashid Johnson, Pepe Karmel, Jennifer Kidwell, Christopher Y. Lew, Kalup Linzy, Glenn Lowry, Jessica Lynne, Daniel J. Martinez, Steven Henry Madoff, Carrie Moyer, Jayson Musson, Shirin Neshat, Linda Norden, Catherine Opie, Clifford Owens, Ann Philbin, Lisa Phillips, Pope.
But the museum’s director, Lisa Phillips, has saved her institution by more or less handing the organizational and philosophical reins of this crushingly claustrophobic boxy space to artistic director Massimiliano Gioni, maybe the living master of large-scale-themed group shows centering on contemporary art.
By then the art world is in Basel, and it’s safe to see the 88 national pavilions and 158 artists in curator Massimiliano Gioni’s show, “The Encyclopedic Palace,” on my own.
“The Encyclopedic Palace,” as the Biennale is called, has been organized by Massimiliano Gioni, a good friend of mine and a curator who’s done some fantastic shows as associate director and director of exhibition at our own New Museum.
If the artistic past is any predictor of future behavior, the heads of the Venice Biennale did themselves a solid this afternoon, naming the New Museum’s Massimiliano Gioni the chief director of the 55th Venice Biennale.
“Ostalgia,” at the New Museum This buildingwide show of aThis buildingwide show of art from the former Soviet bloc, ­Ostalgia, indicated that curator Massimiliano Gioni is now master of his own form of large-scale exhibition as narrative, time machine, pleasurable pedagogy, historical potboiler come to life, and insight.
Elyn Zimmerman worked for Robert Irwin           Rick Prol worked for Jean-Michel Basquiat           Keith Edmier worked for Matthew Barney           Massimiliano Gioni worked for Maurizio Cattelan           Lisa Ruyter worked for Marilyn Minter           Dave Muller worked for Mike Kelley           Collier Schorr worked for Richard Prince           Josephine Meckseper worked for Laurie Simmons           Laura Stein worked for John Baldessari           Jonas Wood worked for Laura Owens           Jonas Wood worked for Matt Johnson           Sally Ross worked for David Reed           Carl D’Alvia worked for Sean Scully           Huma Bhabha and worked together for Meyer Vaisman           Jason Fox worked for Vija Celmins           Jacob Kassay worked for Ann Craven and Josh Smith           Wayne Gonzales worked for Peter Halley           Ben Noam worked for Julie Mehretu           Lisa Ruyter worked for Mary Heilmann            Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober            Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter            Justine Kurland worked for Gregory Crewdson           Lisa Anne Auerbach worked for Paul McCarthy           Jennifer Bornstein worked for Sophie Calle           Jennifer Bornstein worked for Mike Kelley           Kenny Goldsmith worked for Allan McCollum           Ashley Bickerton worked for Jack Goldstein            Mike Ballou worked for Marilyn Minter            Matt Keegan worked for John Miller           Nicole Eisenman worked for David Humphrey?
She appointed Massimiliano Gioni, who’d been at the institution since 2006, associate director and put him in charge of the whole curatorial department.
Laura Hoptman and Massimiliano Gioni, both at New Museum, are two of the best around.
Her curator, Massimiliano Gioni, has worked previously with Joannou, and he oversaw the current three-floor Urs Fischer show.
Her curator, Massimiliano Gioni, has worked previously with Joannou, and he oversaw the current Urs Fischer show.
So much so that the curator Massimiliano Gioni mused to one writer, “I have thought a couple of times of killing him”.
They put together a list of 500 or so, and three in-house curators—Lauren Cornell, Massimiliano Gioni, and Laura Hoptman (a Millennial, Gen-Xer, and Boomer, respectively)—sifted through it to create the final building-filling show of 50 artists from 25 countries.
Its curator, Massimiliano Gioni, has used the late W. G. Sebald’s lugubrious book of the same title as a narrative platform.
So far, Phillips has done that by picking the site and hiring two of the best curators around: Massimiliano Gioni and Laura Hoptman.
If the artistic past is any predictor of future behavior, the heads of the Venice Biennale did themselves a solid, naming the New Museum's Massimiliano Gioni the chief director of the 55th Venice Biennale.
“Ostalgia,” at the New Museum   This building wide show of art from the former Soviet bloc, ­Ostalgia, indicated that curator Massimiliano Gioni is now master of his own form of large-scale exhibition as narrative, time machine, pleasurable pedagogy, historical potboiler come to life, and insight.
Elyn Zimmerman worked for Robert Irwin  Rick Prol worked for Jean-Michel Basquiat  Keith Edmier worked for Matthew Barney  Massimiliano Gioni worked for Maurizio Cattelan  Lisa Ruyter worked for Marilyn Minter  Dave Muller worked for Mike Kelley  Collier Schorr worked for Richard Prince  Josephine Meckseper worked for Laurie Simmons  Laura Stein worked for John Baldessari  Jonas Wood worked for Laura Owens  Jonas Wood worked for Matt Johnson  Sally Ross worked for David Reed  Carl D’Alvia worked for Sean Scully  Huma Bhabha and worked together for Meyer Vaisman  Jason Fox worked for Vija Celmins  Jacob Kassay worked for Ann Craven and Josh Smith  Wayne Gonzales worked for Peter Halley  Ben Noam worked for Julie Mehretu  Lisa Ruyter worked for Mary Heilmann   Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober   Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter   Justine Kurland worked for Gregory Crewdson  Lisa Anne Auerbach worked for Paul McCarthy  Jennifer Bornstein worked for Sophie Calle  Jennifer Bornstein worked for Mike Kelley  Kenny Goldsmith worked for Allan McCollum  Ashley Bickerton worked for Jack Goldstein   Mike Ballou worked for Marilyn Minter   Matt Keegan worked for John Miller  Nicole Eisenman worked for David Humphrey  Inka Essenhigh worked for Gary Stephan  Merlin Carpenter worked for Martin Kippenberger  Isca Greenfield-Sanders worked for Cecily Brown  Corin Hewitt worked for Matthew Barney  Jessica Jackson Hutchins worked for Lawrence Weiner.
They put together a list of 500 or so, and three in-house curators -- Lauren Cornell, Massimiliano Gioni and Laura Hoptman (a Millennial, Gen-Xer and Boomer, respectively) -- sifted through it to create the final building-filling show of 50 artists from 25 countries.
