The sewn paintings are beautiful, although they evoke similar efforts by Sigmar Polke, Martin Kippenberger, and Rosemarie Trockel.
His work also relates to Sigmar Polke, Daniel Buren, Rosemarie Trockel, Blinky Palermo, and James Lee Byars, making Krebber’s street cred all but bulletproof.
In actuality, this Berlin-based painter crosses the readymades of Duchamp with the rougher alchemists like Sigmar Polke, Rosemarie Trockel, and Michael Krebber.
In the Affirming Spirit of “Surviving Sandy,” Seven Artists and Events That Made New York Great This Year Thomas Hirschhorn’s Gramsci Monument; Trisha Baga at Greene Naftali and the Whitney; William Copley and Bjarne Melgaard at Venus Over Manhattan; Trisha Donnelly at MoMA and Rosemarie Trockel at the New Museum, lingering from the end of 2012; and Banksy’s month of art in New York.
In the Affirming Spirit of “Surviving Sandy,” Seven Artists and Events That Made New York Great This YearThomas Hirschhorn’s Gramsci Monument; Trisha Baga at Greene Naftali and the Whitney; William Copley and Bjarne Melgaard at Venus Over Manhattan; Trisha Donnelly at MoMA and Rosemarie Trockel at the New Museum, lingering from the end of 2012; and Banksy’s month of art in New York.
Decades after Flavin, and in the wake of recent artists who’ve experimented with mechanical-reproduction techniques—like Richard Prince, Rudolf Stingel, and Rosemarie Trockel, among many others—making formalist post-minimalistic paintings via machine is still a big bugaboo in some sectors.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel, and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jorge Immendorff.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jörg Immendorff.
The sewn paintings are beautiful, although they evoke similar efforts by Sigmar Polke, Martin Kippenberger and Rosemarie Trockel.
His work also relates to Sigmar Polke, Daniel Buren, Rosemarie Trockel, Blinky Palermo and James Lee Byars, making Krebber's street cred all but bulletproof.
In actuality, this Berlin-based painter crosses the readymades of Duchamp with the rougher alchemists like Sigmar Polke, Rosemarie Trockel and Michael Krebber.
