Or as Oscar Wilde remarked, “The moment you think you understand a work of art it’s dead for you”.
But you can’t develop what Oscar Wilde called “the critical spirit” if you’re mainly seeing masterpieces.
Many of the 52 drawings in the Frick’s aptly titled “A Beautiful and Gracious Manner: The Art of Parmigianino” suggest that this phenom was a true heir to Botticelli’s exquisiteness, an inventor of a new kind of art-for-art’s-sake beauty, and a harbinger of the refined sensibilities of Walter Pater, Oscar Wilde, James Whistler, and Charles Baudelaire.
As Oscar Wilde said, “Ambition is the last refuge of the failure”.
Employing laconic, Wim Wenders-like camera work, blurry shots of joggers, line dancers, and wayward youth reading Oscar Wilde or idling in bedrooms, House & Garage is all but devoid of narration and ends with a resolutely neoromantic image: fireworks screened in reverse.
If, as Oscar Wilde said, people who attack society are the ones who really want to get into it, then these artists have bumrushed their way into a club they supposedly never wanted to join.
Oh, and it also never mentions that its title is taken from Oscar Wilde, talking about cynics who know “the price of everything and the value of nothing”.
I pledge allegiance to Oscar Wilde.
Oscar Wilde said, “Without the critical faculty, there is no artistic creation at all”.
Raymond Chandler invented early-20th-century L.A.; Francis Ford Coppola forged our vision of the Vietnam War; Andy Warhol combined clashing colors that were never together before and that palette is now ubiquitous; God creating Adam looks the way Michelangelo painted it; Oscar Wilde said “the mysterious loveliness” of fog didn’t exist before poets and painters.
Never mind that Oscar Wilde said something like, “The moment that you think you know a work of art, it is dead to you”.
Oscar Wilde wrote that “there is no such thing as a moral or an immoral” work of art.
Like Oscar Wilde’s grave at Père Lachaise, there should be a destination in New York to mark that journey.
Or as Oscar Wilde remarked, "The moment you think you understand a work of art, it's dead for you".
