Wallace Stevens wrote of dying as “absolute and without memorial”.
For me, Judd is more than a wintry, plain-fact Wallace Stevens “thing itself” artist.
Wallace Stevens wrote that “Poetry is the subject of poetry”.
D. H. Lawrence is pounding on the table, Alexander Pope is making me get a grip, Wallace Stevens listens to my language and recommends words, Whitman pushes me on, my inner Melville gets grandiose, and Proust drives me to make longer and longer sentences till they almost break, and my editor cuts these into eighths or edits them down to one.
Here, in Wallace Stevens’s words, it’s “a constant cry against an old order”.
“Castratos of Moon-Mash” is what Wallace Stevens said we’d be “without the sexual myth, the human revery or poem of death”.
Black Brook 18 radiates like an electric Rothko; Untitled Landscape I is like the largest folk painting ever made, and as magical; Untitled Cityscape 5 combines the mysteries of Goya’s black paintings and Hopper’s solitude; and Snow Scene 2 shows Katz embodying the state of grace that poet Wallace Stevens called “a mind of winter”.
• Jena-Luc Godard, the screenplays A Woman Is a Woman; A Married Woman; and Two or Three Things I Know About Her (Harper and Row, 1975)• Louis I. Kahn, The Notebooks and Drawings (M.I.T. Press, 1973)• Wallace Stevens, Opus Posthumous (Knopf, 1977)Especially the prose portions, and, for example, the poem “Bouquet of Roses in Sunlight,” in The Collected Poems.
In part owing to Koons, art in general regained the power to show us what Wallace Stevens called “the possible nest in the invisible tree”.
Wallace Stevens wrote that “the world must be measured by the eye”.
Nearby is what Wallace Stevens may have meant when he wrote of a “gigantic, solitary urn, a trash can at the end of the world,” where “the dead give up dead things”.
I thought of Wallace Stevens’s writing about “a geography that would be intolerable except for the non-geography that also exists”.
And yet, as I look at the Panorama, I sense what Wallace Stevens meant by how, when twenty people cross a bridge to a city, they’re actually crossing twenty bridges to twenty cities.
Wallace Stevens wrote of wanting “to feel the same way over and over,” the desire for “the river to go on flowing the same way”.
And yet, as I look at the Panorama, I sense what Wallace Stevens meant by how, when 20 people cross a bridge to a city, they’re actually crossing twenty bridges to 20 cities.
Wallace Stevens wrote of wanting "to feel the same way over and over," the desire for "the river to go on flowing the same way".
