Other standouts included Dasha Shishkin, Jackie Saccoccio, Seth Price, Thomas Hirschhorn, Marilyn Minter, Josiah McElheny, Cheney Thompson, Wade Guyton, Aaron Young, Harrell Fletcher, Mark Grotjahn, and perhaps best of all, the exhibition by the living lord of chaos, Sigmar Polke.
The show is blunter and more unrelenting than Thomas Hirschhorn’s recent anti-Iraq war exhibition.
Goya’s stupendousSaturn Devouring His Children isn’t beautiful, nor is Duchamp’s bottle rack, or Thomas Hirschhorn’s recent blood-and-modernism installation.
Raad—who splits his time between Brooklyn and Beirut and who teaches at Cooper Union—is the opposite of the slash-and-burn artist Thomas Hirschhorn, whose show is currently up at Barbara Gladstone.
Thomas Hirschhorn’s latest exhibition is a walk-in manifesto, a book of the dead about the psychic place where mysticism, modernism, mayhem, and terror collapse into one another.
The “Them” QuestionThere’s a non-p.c., nevertheless vexing issue lurking in Thomas Hirschhorn’s current Barbara Gladstone exhibition: The vast majority of the pictures of the blown-apart bodies on view are apparently Arabs.
There’s a non-p.c., nevertheless vexing issue lurking in Thomas Hirschhorn’s current Barbara Gladstone exhibition: The vast majority of the pictures of the blown-apart bodies on view are apparently Arabs.
Recent male mess makers include Jason Rhoades, Damien Hirst, Keith Tyson, John Bock, Jonathan Meese, Aidas Bareikis, Thomas Hirschhorn, the late Dieter Roth and Martin Kippenberger, and the living overlord, Paul McCarthy.
New Guy Artists include space invaders Jason Rhoades and Thomas Hirschhorn; boy scientists Damien Hirst and Olafur Eliasson; merry pranksters Maurizio Cattelan and Carsten Holler; boy-chicks and it-boys like Rob Pruitt or Hiroshi Sunairi; model makers Michael Ashkin and Tim Hawkinson; Landers the elder and Landers the younger; Charles Ray astride the butch-femme fence; likewise Tom Friedman, Jim Isermann, and Dan Peterman (who is between home building, Rirkrit feeding, and a hard place in his Andrea Rosen exhibition).
Now I see Barney as a mystic bridge between the ambition, absurdity, first-person identity politics, and pseudo-autobiographical Arabian Nights fiction of 1980s artists like Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, Anselm Kiefer, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Martin Kippenberger and the populism, love of beauty, craft, dexterity with scales large and small, unusual materials, and grand activism of 1990s artists like Kara Walker, Pipilotti Rist, Olafur Eliasson, Thomas Hirschhorn, later Robert Gober, and even Richard Serra — who actually appeared in one of Barney’s films.
In the Affirming Spirit of “Surviving Sandy,” Seven Artists and Events That Made New York Great This Year Thomas Hirschhorn’s Gramsci Monument; Trisha Baga at Greene Naftali and the Whitney; William Copley and Bjarne Melgaard at Venus Over Manhattan; Trisha Donnelly at MoMA and Rosemarie Trockel at the New Museum, lingering from the end of 2012; and Banksy’s month of art in New York.
By Thomas Hirschhorn.
The show is blunter and more unrelenting than Thomas Hirschhorn's recent anti-Iraq war exhibition.
Thomas Hirschhorn's latest exhibition is a walk-in manifesto, a book of the dead about the psychic place where mysticism, modernism, mayhem and terror collapse into one another.
