These large-scale galleons are marvelous collaged visions made of canvas and clothes, among other materials, and evoke artists as wide-ranging as Kara Walker, Matthew Day Jackson, Arturo Herrera, Wangechi Mutu, William Kentridge, and Ed Ruscha.
However, Carroll Dunham, who wrote one of the two excellent catalog essays (the other is by Bob Nickas), refers to them as “formalist paintings with Ed Ruscha punch lines,” which opens them up.
Although her pared-down images can be likened to the big, empty space of Ed Ruscha (without the irony), or the uninflected expanses of Vija Celmins, she is emerging as something like her generation’s Agnes Martin: an artist of metaphysical refinement and restraint.
for Ed Ruscha, who collects art from L.A. A similar shout-out for Georg Baselitz, who introduces us to his own find: Carl Fredrik Hill (1849–1911), whose intense, romantic crayon-on-paper landscapes have a touch of the Baselitz about them.
Ed Ruscha made books of photographs of gas stations and all the buildings on Sunset Strip.
(Ed Ruscha and Robert Indiana painted paintings of words.
Or a hyper-version of Ed Ruscha’s 1966 Every Building on the Sunset Strip — a landmark fold-out photographic work that is just that.
Over these derivative takes on Richard Prince and Ed Ruscha, Israel has printed words, à la Barbara Kruger, written by the Gen X novelist Bret Easton Ellis.
All four artists on the museum’s board, including Ed Ruscha and Barbara Kruger, resigned.
” feels vinegary and insistent, and I am reminded of what Ed Ruscha once said: “Good art should elicit a response of ‘Huh?
Ed Ruscha’s burning Standard station is near John Baldessari’s painting of a car and a Barney picture of five cars.
Kelley, a Detroit native, spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where — with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray, and Jason Rhodes — he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins, and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
But that coastal divide provided a canyon-size aesthetic opening, freeing up artists like Ed Ruscha, Bruce Nauman, Paul McCarthy, and Baldessari, all of whom developed styles vastly different from those in the East.
The focus was on Ed Ruscha’s apparently banal, almost-monochrome conceptualist work made in 1983.
A Detroit native, Kelley spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where -- with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray and Jason Rhoades -- he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
