Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius, or Jim Nutt—none of whom are included—would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
Europeans like Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Blinky Palermo, and Bernd and Hilla Becher would hang with Claes Oldenburg, Diane Arbus, Richard Avedon, and Peter Saul.
She was all the freaks Diane Arbus ever photographed as seen by Francis Bacon.
Diane Arbus also, in effect, had one subject.
As a photographer, Dijkstra is two parts August Sander, one part Diane Arbus, and one part classicist.
Al Freeman More Comparisons BortolamiLast year when I posted one of Al Freeman’s so-called “Comparisons” — her simple two-part collages where she compares two found photos or images from books and the internet, say Diane Arbus’s famous portrait of a naked man with his genitals tucked between his legs and a well-known picture of Chris Christie in a baseball uniform sporting what can only be called a camel toe — hundreds of people took to Instagram branding her “anti trans”.
If you want historical examples, see shows of Diane Arbus, Joan Jonas, Anne Harvey, Flora Crockett, Barbara Bloom, Sarah Charlesworth, Lygia Pape, Louise Bourgeois, Nancy Spero, and one of the great visionaries of the last 100 years, Rei Kawakubo.
Fellow geniuses who also took to the streets to make their work included Diane Arbus, Garry Winogrand (my fave), Robert Frank, and the visionary Weegee, as well as photographers like Robert Adams, Lewis Baltz, and Stephen Shore (collectively known as New Topographics — a group that recorded suburbia’s encroachment on the landscape, implicitly showing the rape of the land, the socioeconomics, and white flight that was shaping America).
Among other early outstanding works on view is a great light piece by Dan Flavin — one from his famous Monument for V. Tatlin series from 1969 — and excellent photographs by Robert Adams, Diane Arbus, Lee Friedlander, Larry Clark, and Cindy Sherman, including five early Filmstills.
Her pictures can stand alongside of and sometimes recall those of Cartier-Bresson, Lisette Model, Robert Frank, André Kertesz, Diane Arbus, Richard Avedon, Walker Evans, Gary Winogrand, Richard Avedon, and Weegee.
(And of Diane Arbus’s, by the way: She too used a Rolleiflex, among other cameras.
Her characters have wrongly been compared to those of Diane Arbus, whose subjects look out at us from similarly stark interiors and invite us into a world they’re comfortable in.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus, and Andy Warhol.
Ample installations of work by Diane Arbus, Ken Price, George Ohr, Florine Stettheimer, Maya Deren, Horace Pippin, and Henry Darger would let us experience some of the greatest visionaries who ever lived.
In some ways Lawler is a conceptual Diane Arbus.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.
Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius or Jim Nutt -- none of whom are included -- would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
