Not only is Ramírez the best of the so-called “Self-Taught” or “Outsider” artists–baldly limiting, not to mention bogus categories considering that on some level all artists are self-taught–but he ranks as among the greatest artists of the 20th century, along with three other so-called “outsiders,” Adolf Wölfli, Henry Darger, and Bill Traylor.
I love images of the Garden  of Eden, Kingdom Come, paradises lost and found, journeys to the bottom of the sea, the center of the earth, and the underworld, as well as Henry Darger’s sprawling universe, Adolf Wölfli’s roiling world, Joseph Beuys’s blackboard drawings, metaphysicians like Robert Fludd and Athanasius Kircher, and the art of Brueghel, Bosch, and Piranesi.
As with Adolf Wölfli’s jam-packed art, McHargue’s can take some getting used to.
Certainly, the mighty Swiss “outsider artist” Adolf Wölfli enunciated a handful of them in his fulminating, mandala-like illuminations, drawings, and collages—105 of which are on view in the American Folk Art Museum’s enthralling survey, “St. Adolf-Giant-Creation: The Art of Adolf Wölfli”.
Henry Darger was using found images in much the same way, and Martín Ramírez and Adolf Wölfli employ some of the same nonnarrative all-at-once space, curving cones and off-world compositions filled with terrestrial phenomena.
Among those she celebrated were Martín Ramírez, Henry Darger, Joseph Yoakum, Adolf Wölfli, and Reverend Howard Finster — some of the greatest visionaries of late-20th-century art.
To this day, most permanent collections exclude geniuses like Bill Traylor, Adolf Wölfli, Martin Ramírez, Henry Darger, to say nothing of Gee’s Bend quilts, Hilma Af Klint, Emma Kunz, Marsden Hartley, Louis Eilshemius, George Ohr, James Castle, Forrest Bess, Jess, Jay DeFeo, Ray Johnson, Jim Nutt, Asger Jorn, Beauford Delaney, Bob Thompson, Robert Colescott, Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Paula Rego, and H.C. Westermann.
I was a guard at Chicago’s Museum of Contemporary Art during its show of Adolf Wölfli.
Missing at MoMA are visionaries like Adolf Wölfli, whose manic abstraction can make Kandinsky look tame; George Ohr’s biomorphic ceramic configurations; Rudolf Steiner’s cosmic diagrams; and Olga Rozanova, who was making Rothkos and Newmans of her own.
BEST RETROSPECTIVE (MAD GENIUS DIVISION)Martín RamírezThe American Folk Art Museum made the best of its narrow 53rd Street space by mounting a glorious retrospective of this visionary, who ranks with “outsider” giants like Bill Traylor, Henry Darger, and Adolf Wölfli.
BEST RETROSPECTIVE (MAD GENIUS DIVISION)    Martín Ramírez The American Folk Art Museum made the best of its narrow 53rd Street space by mounting a glorious retrospective of this visionary, who ranks with "outsider" giants like Bill Traylor, Henry Darger and Adolf Wölfli.
Not only is Ramírez the best of the so-called "Self-Taught" or "Outsider" artists -- baldly limiting, not to mention bogus categories considering that on some level all artists are self-taught -- but he ranks as among the greatest artists of the 20th century, along with three other so-called "outsiders," Adolf Wölfli, Henry Darger and Bill Traylor.
