Marianne Boesky has built herself a snazzy building next to Barbara Gladstone, and down the block Andrea Rosen and Luhring Augustine are reopening in totally redone digs.
Raad—who splits his time between Brooklyn and Beirut and who teaches at Cooper Union—is the opposite of the slash-and-burn artist Thomas Hirschhorn, whose show is currently up at Barbara Gladstone.
The “Them” QuestionThere’s a non-p.c., nevertheless vexing issue lurking in Thomas Hirschhorn’s current Barbara Gladstone exhibition: The vast majority of the pictures of the blown-apart bodies on view are apparently Arabs.
There’s a non-p.c., nevertheless vexing issue lurking in Thomas Hirschhorn’s current Barbara Gladstone exhibition: The vast majority of the pictures of the blown-apart bodies on view are apparently Arabs.
Not only did this season begin with a convergence of the disharmonic kind, in a series of exhibitions that climaxed in back-to-back black holes on 24th Street (Gary Hill at Barbara Gladstone, Sam Taylor-Wood at Matthew Marks, and Julia Scher at  Andrea Rosen), but for two years people have been grousing that the art world was running out of steam, and were waiting for the ax to fall.
After all, the seven enormous spaces that line the north side of the block, from Mary Boone to Barbara Gladstone, tally up to over 43,000 square feet of space.
Matthew Barney’s New York debut was up at Barbara Gladstone, and Jeff Koons was about to be kicked out of the art world for his notorious “Made in Heaven” exhibition at Sonnabend.
I saw Richard Prince, Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman, Barbara Gladstone, Gavin Brown, John Currin, James Nares, Duncan Hannah, Max Blagg, Clarissa Dalrymple, Bob Colacello, Edit DeAk, Walter Robinson, Lisa Rosen, Christopher Wool, Warhol personages, and O’Brien’s last muse and wife, Gina Nanni.
Barbara Gladstone was one of those dealers.
Among the transplants were Barbara Gladstone, Luhring Augustine, Metro Pictures, Andrea Rosen, and others.
As I remember, it was Barbara Gladstone who instantly put her foot down and said, “Hell no!
His solo debut at Barbara Gladstone in SoHo came after his work appeared on the cover of Artforum.
