There’s Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
Chuck Close plays an imperious Wizard in his wheelchair and the already witchy Kiki Smith is perfect as the melting Wicked Witch of the West.
) In 2000, dapper former director Philippe de Montebello groused that a work of Kiki Smith’s was “disgusting and devoid of any craft or aesthetic merit”.
Jeff Koons’s Puppy in front of Rockefeller Center, which I’m still convinced might have quelled even Osama bin Laden; Rob Pruitt’s Union Square Andy Warhol Monument that should be permanent; Sarah Sze’s underground room at 60th Street that made me feel like the Crab Nebula was beneath New York; Rudolf Stingel’s gigantic rug at Grand Central Terminal; Josephine Meckseper’s working Times Square oil derricks; Liz Magic Laser’s restaging of famous movie scenes on the Times Square bleachers; and Francis Alÿs’s amazing parade of replicas of MoMA masterpieces (not to mention the real Kiki Smith) carried across the 59th Street Bridge.
Over the years, many artists had early showings here, including Barry Le Va, Kiki Smith, William Wegman, Sonic Youth, Jack Goldstein, David Wojnarowicz, Felix González-Torres, Andres Serrano, Cady Noland, John Currin, Glenn Ligon, and others.
It’s hard to imagine Kiki Smith’s life-size sculpture of a man performing autofellatio displayed in MoMA’s atrium, for example.
It included work by unknowns Jenny Holzer, David Hammons, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, Kiki Smith, Walter Robinson and many others who were making a loose street-wise non-academic, non-post-minimal art.
The show includes Sarah Charlesworth, Larry Clark, Fab 5 Freddy, Robert Mapplethorpe, Keith Haring, Nan Goldin, Kenny Scharf, Kiki Smith, Robin Winters and others.
Soon thereafter, Pace takes on Elizabeth Murray and Kiki Smith.
There's Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
