His touch is diligent and dogged, his surfaces burnished and raw; his palette recalls early-20th-century advertising, ’60s graphics, and certain Dada works, especially Marcel Duchamp’s last painting, Tu M’, a work from 1918 featuring color swatches streaking across the canvas.
He also organized MOMA exhibitions of Joseph Cornell and Marcel Duchamp, who are in the present show, too.
In the winter of 1917, Marcel Duchamp, age 29, bought a urinal at J.L. Mott Iron Works on Fifth Avenue, turned it on its side, signed it “R.
In 1917, Marcel Duchamp signed a urinal with a pseudonym and called it art.
This act of redefinition echoes the aesthetic-conceptual strategies employed by Marcel Duchamp, who in the early 20th century designated already-existing objects as art (urinal, bicycle wheel, snow shovel, etc.
Marcel Duchamp suspended 1,200 coal bags from a ceiling.
Marcel Duchamp, In Advance of the Broken Arm (1915; reproduced 1964)One of the beginning points for art being made today, inconspicuously displa.
Marcel Duchamp, In Advance of the Broken Arm (1915; reproduced 1964)One of the beginning points for art being made today, inconspicuously displayed: two of Duchamp’s readymades, the found, sometimes altered objects that this genius deemed art.
Regular guests included figures from the country’s first avant-garde, artists and writers like Marcel Duchamp, Man Ray, Marsden Hartley, Carl Van Vechten, Gaston Lachaise, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pavel Tchelitchew, Virgil Thomson, and many others.
Marcel Duchamp contributed a perfect 2-by-3 inch rendition of Nude Descending a Staircase.
Then I found this from Warhol: “Florine Stettheimer was a wealthy primitive painter, a friend of Marcel Duchamp’s, who’d had a one-woman show at the Museum of Modern Art in 1946, and her sister Carrie made some fabulous dollhouse that I loved at the Museum of the City of New York”.
You’re at the start of either an episode of Hoarders or a hypertrophic atavistic version of Étant donnés, Marcel Duchamp’s “installation” seen only by peering through a hole in a pair of barn doors.
I see her 1944 The Game of Chess, its satin pump crushing a bishop’s miter atop a chess board, perhaps thoughts about making her way in an almost all-male art world, perhaps a coy comment on her friend Marcel Duchamp.
Hirst synthesizes punk, Pop Art, Jeff Koons, Marcel Duchamp, Francis Bacon, and Catholicism.
There’s a reference—just about unavoidable among artists who make reference to art history—to Marcel Duchamp’s urinal.
More likely is that he worked in clay, and clay doesn't cut it as "major art" in most people's minds -- unless of course it's Marcel Duchamp's urinal or Méret Oppenheim's fur-lined tea cup -- but then no one mentions that these works are ceramics.
I see her 1944 The Game of Chess, its satin pump crushing a bishop's miter atop a chess board, perhaps thoughts about making her way in an almost all-male art world, perhaps a coy comment on her friend Marcel Duchamp.
Hirst synthesizes punk, Pop Art, Jeff Koons, Marcel Duchamp, Francis Bacon and Catholicism.
There’s a reference -- just about unavoidable among artists who make reference to art history -- to Marcel Duchamp’s urinal.
Whether you like the falls or not, you can't help but smile at the clever twist Eliasson's put on Beatrice Wood's 1917 defense of another piece of abstract plumbing, Marcel Duchamp's Fountain, a found sculpture of a urinal.
