This useful term, coined in the mid 1990s by the French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud, was meant to describe the then groundbreaking practices of artists like Rirkrit Tiravanija, Philippe Parreno, Pierre Huyghe, Liam Gillick, Vanessa Beecroft, and others whose work often involved what Bourriaud called “connectivity” and “interactivity”.
) for weirder, more visionary ones like Verne Dawson, Ricci Albenda, Dana Schutz, Trisha Donnelly, Anna Gaskell, Lisa Ruyter, Robert Melee, Benjamin Butler, Jonathan Horowitz, Guy Richards Smit, Steve DiBenedetto, Jon Kessler and Paul Chan, or (even though I’m not a fan of all of them) Pierre Huyghe, Takashi Murakami, William Kentridge, Rudolf Stingel, Urs Fisher, Jim Lambie, Vanessa Beecroft, Douglas Gordon, Ugo Rondinoni and Francis Alÿs—all of whom live part-time in the United States.
From private parts on figures in the work of Tracey Emin, Su-en Wong, Sarah Lucas, and Marlene McCarty to those in the photographs and self-portraits of Patti Chang, Malerie Marder, Katy Grannan, Kembra Pfahler, and Vanessa Beecroft, hairless pudenda are popping up in art galleries all over town.
Things are a bit drier at Deitch Projects (18 Wooster Street, through April 27), where Vanessa Beecroft is once more proffering an irksomely shallow yet strangely illuminating mirror, reflecting her narcissism, our voyeurism, and the world’s fixation on the female form.
She cited Lisa Yuskavage, Vanessa Beecroft, and Kara Walker as “suspect,” and scarily warned, “Harkness better be gay to paint these paintings”.
) Albenda’s also in step with a number of contemporaries who aren’t as critical of the white cube—artists like Charles Ray, Olafur Eliasson, Jorge Pardo, Glen Seator, and maybe Vanessa Beecroft, who bring a new kind of surrealist wit or decorativeness to their interventions.
He has worked closely in the past with established artists like Vanessa Beecroft and Marco Brambilla.
He produced the band Fischerspooner and helped oversee an event by his artist Vanessa Beecroft, known for her “performances” featuring dozens of naked women standing in stilettos for hours, and Navy officers standing at attention on the deck of the aircraft carrier Intrepid.
Andrea Zittel, Andrea Fraser, Trisha Donnelly, Cosima von Bonin, and Vanessa Beecroft are all missing.
And while his operation has been too large to show young artists first, he's shown a lot of them early -- including Cecily Brown, Vanessa Beecroft, Barry McGee, Swoon, Chris Johanson, Nari Ward and Shahzia Sikander.
Andrea Zittel, Andrea Fraser, Trisha Donnelly, Cosima von Bonin and Vanessa Beecroft are all missing.
Vanessa Beecroft stages Show, a one-night performance at the Guggenheim, in which 20 models, nude or in Gucci bikinis, wearing spiked heels, stand in formation for two hours.
This useful term, coined in the mid 1990s by the French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud, was meant to describe the then groundbreaking practices of artists like Rirkrit Tiravanija, Philippe Parreno, Pierre Huyghe, Liam Gillick, Vanessa Beecroft and others whose work often involved what Bourriaud called "connectivity" and "interactivity".
