It’s impossible to sum up 108 artists, but Raymond Pettibon, in his vivacious installation, includes a phrase that rings true: “The Piecemeal Kingdom”.
First, and assuming the role of major influence—along with two other less recognized but equally important antecedents, William Wegman and Jonathan Borofsky—there’s the dour grand master of drawing himself, Raymond Pettibon, who has a double dip of early work at Zwirner & Wirth (32 East 60th Street, through February 15) and newer efforts at Zwirner (525 West 19th Street, through February 8).
Brilliant outsiders like Henry Darger, Martin Ramirez, Adolf Wolfli, and Bill Traylor come to mind, as do graphic masters like Piranesi, Escher, Crumb, and Raymond Pettibon (who also paints walls).
There are LPs with art by “real” artists on the front, including pictures by Hermann Nitsch, Robert Longo, Josef Albers, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Raymond Pettibon, David Wojnarowicz, and a doozy of a Dalí that Jackie Gleason commissioned.
The statistics for the two seasons preceding these are almost the exact opposite: There were seven “Selections” and five historical exhibitions, with three of these “history” shows devoted to Raymond Pettibon, young Irish artists, and drawings gleaned from various contemporary artists’ collections.
A is for a lot of things in the art of Raymond Pettibon.
Called Raymond Pettibon: A Reader, it gives us a sampling of how much Pettibon has read, and boy, is it varied.
It’s all politics, but there was enough good art and optical agency in “Wrong Side of History” to recommend the show: In addition to well-knowns — including Martha Rosler, Shirin Neshat, Raymond Pettibon, Sue Coe, Lady Pink, Lee Quinones, Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt, and David Wojnarowicz — there’s Robert Upham, of the Dakota Sioux, whose new ledger drawing was made at the recent Standing Rock protests; Australian Colleen O’Reilly’s knotty drawing of a woman raising her leg to pee on a tubby Donald Trump; and a beautiful painting by gallerist Andrew Castrucci’s mother, Dolores, of a recent American air raid in the Middle East.
A few of the artists in this year’s open-house: 1, 4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Raymond Pettibon supposedly found the work of Andrew Pope on Instagram.
• Ryzard Kapuscinski, The Emperor (Pan, 1983)An account of the last days of the emperor Haillie Sailassie♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Elizabeth Peyton, artist• Marcel Proust, Remembrance of Things Past (Paris, 1914-27)• Andy Warhol, The Warhol Diaries (Simon & Schuster, 1989)• Balzac, Lost Illusions (Penguin, 1937)• Jon Savage, England’s Dreaming (Faber & Faber, 1991)• Vincent Cronin, Napoleon (Collins, 1971)♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Raymond Pettibon, artist• Thomas Browne, essays on Gardens, Urn Burial, etc.
Feature opened on April Fool’s Day 1984 with a show of work by Richard Prince, and was eventually among the first to exhibit the art of Takashi Murakami, Raymond Pettibon, Tom Friedman, Charles Ray, B. Wurtz, Judy Linn, Richard Kern, Lisa Beck, Tom of Finland, and many others.
Kelley, a Detroit native, spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where — with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray, and Jason Rhodes — he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins, and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
(Maybe we’ll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mike Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Monk, etc.
A Detroit native, Kelley spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where -- with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray and Jason Rhoades -- he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
(Maybe we'll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mika Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Munk, etc.
