In the handy pamphlet accompanying the show, Durant says he wants to “move monuments commemorating lives lost during the Indian Wars to the National Mall in Washington, D.C.” This idea is pointed without being preachy, heartrending but not mawkish, and politically incisive if stylistically indebted to artists like Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread, Lothar Baumgarten, Stephen Prina, Allan McCollum, and Sol LeWitt.
Unlike Sarah Sze, who is a space-destroying, anal-retentive, warrior-princess artist (owing to the amazing exactitude, ironic reuse of materials, and the spatial voraciousness in her work); Ann Hamilton, who’s only a producer of photogenic New Agey sets; or Rachel Whiteread, who is a mummy maker by way of Nauman, a mortician, and a magician, Washburn is a pack rat, magpie, bag lady, mollusk artist.
Essentially, Schneider created a walk-in Brothers Grimm tale laced with traces of Kurt Schwitters’s Merzbau, Beuys’s spiritualism, Nauman’s panic rooms, Gordon Matta-Clark’s aggressive architecture, Edward Kienholz’s surreal tableaux, Robert Gober, Rachel Whiteread, and something unmistakably German.
Recently Rachel Whiteread, Jake & Dinos Chapman, Collier Schorr, and Maurizio Cattelan have created probing works about Hitler and the Holocaust.
From Damien Hirst’s dead animals and Rachel Whiteread’s casts of everyday objects to Richard Billingham’s photos of his family and Tracey Emin’s life as art, British artists are obsessed with realism.
Tracey Emin lives nearby; so do Peter Doig, Marc Quinn, Gary Hume, Wolfgang Tillmans, Tim Noble and Sue Webster, and Rachel Whiteread.
Rachel Whiteread is in but not entirely of “Sensation”.
On the opposite end of the naughtiness spectrum is Ghost (1990), by resident preservationist Rachel Whiteread.
Whether consciously or not, Hawkinson’s work references artists like Rachel Whiteread, Tom Friedman, Jonathan Borofsky, Bruce Nauman, and Rube Goldberg.
Rachel Whiteread made boxy concrete casts of negative spaces.
By 1990 artists like Jeff Koons, Rachel Whiteread, Chris Ofili, Gabriel Orozco, Andreas Gursky, Christopher Wool, Noland, and Damien Hirst appeared.
British artist Rachel Whiteread unveils her first public sculpture in New York, a full sized translucent cast resin water tower atop a building in SoHo.
In the handy pamphlet accompanying the show, Durant says he wants to "move monuments commemorating lives lost during the Indian Wars to the National Mall in Washington, D.C." This idea is pointed without being preachy, heartrending but not mawkish, and politically incisive if stylistically indebted to artists like Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread, Lothar Baumgarten, Stephen Prina, Allan McCollum and Sol LeWitt.
