The subjects of Catherine Opie’s academic black-and-white photographs are, as the show’s title informs us, “American Cities”.
Lonely HunterThe subjects of Catherine Opie’s academic black-and-white photographs are, as the show’s title informs us, “American Cities”.
Pérez’s pictures of their gender surgery remind us that Catherine Opie’s strongest work initially appeared in the storied 1993 Biennial.
The Guerrila Girls plaster their posters around town, and later visit the CalArts class of photographer Catherine Opie: “They said, ‘Girls sit on this side, boys sit on this side,’ and then they threw bananas at the boys.
(“It was all about the body and shoving yams up one’s ass, and I was like, ‘whoa she’s really going for it,’” says Catherine Opie.
Today—History by Rachel CorbettThis project was assembled from interviews with John Ahearn, Dennis Barrie, Frank Benson, Homi Bhabha, Claire Bishop, Francesco Bonami, AA Bronson, Susan Cahan, Dan Cameron, Rodriguez Calero, Leidy Churchman, Bridget R. Cooks, Lauren Cornell, Holland Cotter, Douglas Crimp, Vaginal Davis, Kimberly Drew, Grace Dunham, Peter Eleey, Darby English, Okwui Enwezor, Awol Erizku, Teresita Fernández, Karen Finley, Hal Foster, Coco Fusco, Massimiliano Gioni, Alison Gingeras, RoseLee Goldberg, Claudia Gould, Thyrza Nichols Goodeve, Paul Ha, K8 Hardy, Steven P. Henry, Dave Hickey, Matthew Higgs, Laura Hoptman, Chrissie Iles, Jay Z, Rashid Johnson, Pepe Karmel, Jennifer Kidwell, Christopher Y. Lew, Kalup Linzy, Glenn Lowry, Jessica Lynne, Daniel J. Martinez, Steven Henry Madoff, Carrie Moyer, Jayson Musson, Shirin Neshat, Linda Norden, Catherine Opie, Clifford Owens, Ann Philbin, Lisa Phillips, Pope.
Kelley, a Detroit native, spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where — with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray, and Jason Rhodes — he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins, and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
A Detroit native, Kelley spent his whole career in Los Angeles, where -- with Raymond Pettibon, Paul McCarthy, Catherine Opie, Jennifer Pastor, Charles Ray and Jason Rhoades -- he helped turn the incipient foreboding of Edward Kienholz, Ed Ruscha, Nancy Rubins and Chris Burden into an all-out acrimonious art of darkness.
Lonely HunterThe subjects of Catherine Opie's academic black-and-white photographs are, as the show's title informs us, "American Cities".
