Inside, a 12-page spread gushed about how Ryan McGinley, Dash Snow, and Dan Colen are showing everywhere and making fistfuls of money; one of the trio is a drug-addled scion of an American fortune, another has an “impressive penis”.
In their collection are artists like Prince, Joe Bradley, Christopher Wool, Nate Lowman, Alex Da Corte, Alex Israel, Dan Colen, and many other very famous artists.
Israel and Dan Colen signed up with Gagosian, Oscar Murillo with David Zwirner.
If I stop a collector from buying Dan Colen’s work because I didn’t like it, I would say to Dan: You were one lucky motherfucker, because the guy that was going to buy your work, he wasn’t serious about it anyway if some geezer critic could stop him.
See Nate Lowman, Urs Fischer, Joe Bradley, Mark Grotjahn, Dan Colen, Paul Chan, and many others who emerged about the same time.
At Gagosian’s 24th Street space — the Oz, the top of the food chain — is Dan Colen’s show of nine large paintings all based on backgrounds from Walt Disney’s animated film Fantasia.
Lucien Smith uses fire extinguishers to make his little drips; Dan Colen uses M&Ms for his; Adam McEwen deploys chewing gum; Parker Ito paints fields of hazy colored dots.
Bottom row: Bleach Bum (2011), by Sam Moyer; To Be Titled (2011), by Dan Colen; The Lady Eve (2012), by Lucien Smith.
Martin glides in slo-mo past art featured in the sale: work by Christopher Wool, Wade Guyton, Richard Prince, Jeff Koons, Dan Colen, Cady Noland, John Currin, and other blue-chip names.
The publicity-loving bad boy Dan Colen is only now recovering from his 2010 misfire at Gagosian that included an upside-down skateboard ramp, a long row of kicked-over motorcycles, and paintings made with chewing gum and confetti.
What possible meaning can we ascribe to the kicked-over motorcycles by Dan Colen, smiley faces by Fang Lijun, or happy, shiny garnishes by Takashi Murakami and Hirst.
My Q. for U: What four or five shows can you recommend in Chelsea that offer more substantial fare than the juvenilia of Dan Colen?
The fall art season has begun—well after the purportedly cleansing end of the bubble—with the Spirit of Stupidity, stalking us in the form of the well-meaning but misguided Dan Colen.
Dan Colen and Nate Lowman’s collaboration at Maccarone has the look of now.
Dan Colen and Nate Lowman.
)One of the show’s pleasant surprises is Dan Colen’s 15-foot Psychotic ­Reaction, made by sprinkling flower petals on canvas.
Inside, a 12-page spread gushed about how Ryan McGinley, Dash Snow and Dan Colen are showing everywhere and making fistfuls of money; one of the trio is a drug-addled scion of an American fortune, another has an "impressive penis".
