Also, don’t miss the terrific videos by Francesco Vezzoli, Cameron Jamie, Pierre Huyghe, the collective Don’t Trust Anyone Over Thirty, and especially Ryan Trecartin’s retina-bursting all-pores-open A Family Finds Entertainment.
Of late, no one has better manipulated the changeable space between actual objects, digital imagery, millions of colors, aural distortion, cultural narrative, and the feeling of having one’s metabolism moving at the speed of an insect and seeing everything through dragonfly eyes than Ryan Trecartin.
She began showing Yoko Ono, Tetsumi Kudo, the Walker Evans Estate, and three personal favorites, Matthew Ritchie, David Altmejd, and Ryan Trecartin.
His particular obsessions, though inspired, are less important than the size of the screen onto which he projected them (which is one reason you can see his legacy in such divergent contemporary offspring as Ryan Trecartin, Andra Ursuta, Elaine Cameron-Weir, Lucy Dodd, and Josh Kline).
More recently, we’ve gotten the insane overload of sound, color, sensibilities, cults and tribes in Ryan Trecartin and Lizzie Fitch’s videos and the JPEG, YouTube circularity data in Hito Steyerl’s walk-in videos, films and sculptural installations.
And newer work by white men shows the performative-identiy influence: The video installations of Ryan Trecartin tackle sex, culture, and race; men become women become clowns become micropersonae become mirrors.
His surveys of Ryan Trecartin and Laurel Nakadate; his “Fassbinder Berlin Alexanderplatz”; the 2000 “Disasters of War” he organized, pairing Jake and Dinos Chapman with Henry Darger; and his 2013 group show about ecological changes were all good.
Her co-curator is one of the best artists of his generation, 34-year-old Ryan Trecartin, someone who has narrowed the space between objects, images, digital manipulation, cultural narrative, millions of colors, and layers of sound to a supercharged splinter.
Top Up-and-Comer: Ryan Trecartin at MoMA P.S. 1 At 30, he’s not exactly a newcomer, but Trecartin’s summer MoMA P.S. 1 solo show, his first at a major New York museum, was the one that really delivered his distinct brand of mind-numbingly shrill, oppressively flamboyant, tightly scripted video installation to the masses.
Ryan Trecartin’s scintillating two-room installation involves a jet-plane interior, hanging suitcases, and videos of crazy kids of indistinct gender talking about tourism, time shares, and the credit crunch.
Courtesy of the New Museum and Cosmic Galerie, Paris Ryan Trecartin Like being patched into all the computers in the world at once; the poetics of overload, color, and density.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Ryan Trecartin Everyone doing everything at once everywhere at once.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Ryan Trecartin A ride into cosmic dimensions of color and information.
Ryan Trecartin’s brilliantly colored, insanely paced, multi-narrative single-channel videos are some of the wildest things to appear in years.
In the 2006 Whitney Biennial, the 25-year-old Ryan Trecartin collapsed the esthetics of the 1990s into a 1,000-headed synthesized singularity that is already affecting artists everywhere.
