The exhibition of early video art, “Into the Light,” and the Jacob Lawrence survey were both superb, and “The Quilts of Gee’s Bend,” while patronizing, was a huge hit.
That artist is Jacob Lawrence (1917-2000), now the subject of a probing, occasionally soaring, retrospective at the Whitney.
One photograph of a lone black custodian can make you cringe; another, of the black painter Jacob Lawrence “discussing” his work with a little white boy, can make you cry.
A list of his friends and acquaintances includes Stuart Davis — his closest painter compatriot — W.E.B. Du Bois (whose portrait he did), Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Jacob Lawrence, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe (who did a portrait of him), Edward Steichen, Dorothy Norman, Anaïs Nin (who intimidated him), Jackson Pollock, and Jean Genet.
From 1926 on, she showed artists like Stuart Davis, Charles Sheeler, Ben Shahn, Georgia O’Keeffe, Jacob Lawrence, Horace Pippin, and Yasuo Kuniyoshi, who was classified as an enemy alien during World War II.
All these artists work in what might be called near-academic or illustrational realisms, later-day photo-realism, illuminated Persian manuscript, or even Romare Bearden– and Jacob Lawrence–inspired Picasso-esque Cubisms.
“You still had Romare Bearden and Jacob Lawrence, but they were always framed as black artists, whereas Jean-Michel Basquiat was a superstar, and I think his success did redefine how an artist of color could be collected”.
There were also surveys of Jacob Lawrence and Joaquín Torres-Garcia, and by Klaus Biesenbach himself, the Wael Shawky show at MoMA/PS1 — one of the best shows of the year.
Nearby, Alice Neel and Jacob Lawrence take on Picasso, not to mention Goya, trying to paint social strife and World War II, and their paintings have their own pictorial densities, styles, ideas about suffering, and — in the case of Lawrence — being a black American solider.
In a serene floor-to-ceiling-painted room of violet, pink, and purple flowers, ferns, and trees — it’s like a surround Monet — we see Ofili unleashing all his painterly powers, tapping into art-historical sources as varied as Art Nouveau, Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence, Bob Thompson, German Expressionism, Gauguin, and Matisse.
Walker’s sooty new world echoes one of the most powerful works in American art: Jacob Lawrence’s 1941 tour de force, the 60-panel The Migration of the Negro.
Perhaps Jacob Lawrence’s epic series on black migration from the South at the beginning of the twentieth century?
Instead, there are strange traces of all sorts of art-historical DNA, including Jazz Age graphics, various early-twentieth-century modernist styles, Lyonel Feininger, stained glass, Ludwig Kirchner, Romare Bearden, Art Nouveau, Jacob Lawrence, and Bob Thompson.
Perhaps Jacob Lawrence’s  epic series on black migration from the South at the beginning of the 20th  century?
Instead, there are strange traces of all sorts of art-historical DNA, including Jazz Age graphics, various early-20th-century modernist styles, Lyonel Feininger, stained glass, Ludwig Kirchner, Romare Bearden, Art Nouveau, Jacob Lawrence and Bob Thompson.
