Her quasi-structuralist, Michael Snow–like film Goshogaoka, of a Japanese girls’ basketball team warming up, was a fascinating extension of process art by way of Merce Cunningham.
When other American artists, like Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Cy Twombly, John Cage, and Merce Cunningham, were meeting and staying up late together (many of them open and uncloseted in their sexuality), Delaney was in Paris, where Baldwin had told him he could escape the long American night of racism.
Not the “straight” art world of the Abstract Expressionists or the new scenes around Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, Cy Twombly, Merce Cunningham, and John Cage.
That was the year after Twombly had met his then-lover, that fellow Southerner Robert Rauschenberg, who brought him to Black Mountain College, where he met Jasper Johns, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, Charles Olson, and many others.
This is the work of Ellsworth Kelly, whose shaped, monochrome, opaque, hard-edged, stacked, and incandescently optical paintings have since the early 1950s — when, nearing the height of Abstract Expressionism in America, the young New York native, fresh from military service and the G.I. Bill and living in Paris — took a bold jolting turn into a new kind of geometric abstraction: minimal paintings that came as much from the facets of Cubism, Constructivism, and Mondrian as they did from Americans like Stuart Davies, Burgoyne Diller, and the young John Cage and Merce Cunningham, whom Kelly met in the French capital.
Sarah Michelson ignites massive reservoirs of movement and music by way of Pina Bausch, Merce Cunningham, and Philip Glass in her ambitious fourth-floor performance/dance/mystery play.
Merce Cunningham, 1953.
I rued the jam-packed schedule, got at least one venue and time completely wrong, and drifted off during Tacita Dean’s languid 100-minute film of Merce Cunningham’s dance company.
Sarah Michelson ignites massive reservoirs of movement and music by way of Pina Bausch, Merce Cunningham, and Philip Glass in her ambitious fourth-floor performance dance mystery play.
Her quasi-structuralist, Michael Snow-like film Goshogaoka, of a Japanese girls' basketball team warming up, was a fascinating extension of process art by way of Merce Cunningham.
