Burchfield, who like Hopper painted as if cubism never happened, is van Gogh by way of Caspar David Friedrich, Marsden Hartley, John Marin, calendar art, and Sunday painting.
His pictures of beds and bedrooms can stand beside van Gogh’s without losing much.
Doig once said his paintings were like “taking pictures with van Gogh film in the camera”.
To me, his Harvesters painting at the Met is the second-best yellow painting in art history, after only van Gogh; his jam-packed scenes and pictures of deeply human peasants can take many lifetimes to piece together.
) The tail is Cézanne, van Gogh, and Seurat.
Julian Schnabel and Willem Dafoe for countering the overheated myth of male suffering and mad genius in At Eternity’s Gate, which shows Vincent van Gogh was lucid, Gauguin was not an asshole, and van Gogh was a poor and famous artist whose every move was known in Paris and deeply appreciated.
You fancy yourself a modern van Gogh, a passed-over genius the world isn’t ready for.
That being said, [the art critic Albert] Aurier saw van Gogh’s paintings of the sunflowers and wrote about them, and that was read by everyone in [van Gogh’s] circle.
False: “[French post-Impressionist] Gauguin was always portrayed as the villain in regards to van Gogh, but I think they had mutual respect for each other.
[In the film], that letter from Gauguin to van Gogh when he’s in the hospital — it’s the best review he could have gotten.
It meant loads to van Gogh that Gauguin wanted to exchange a painting with him”.
What was your relationship to van Gogh before At Eternity’s Gate?
I love that the movie changes our notion of van Gogh as a crazy man.
And van Gogh was not unknown in his own time.
Many, many artists in Paris knew every move van Gogh made.
Nor did van Gogh.
Do you have a favorite van Gogh or two that you’ve walked off with in your heart?
I think, Damn it, van Gogh, you’d already accomplished it in your drawings, you big dummy.
With color, he is a rival to van Gogh and Matisse.
This book introduces us to Delacroix the reformer, who delivers painting from illusionism to painting-as-expression, from well-rendered fussy draftsmanship to painting as physically alive — the artist who leads directly to Courbet, Manet, Impressionism, Post-Impressionism, van Gogh, and Cézanne.
His art also points directly at Cezanne, Manet, Gauguin, Renoir, and van Gogh (all of whom name-checked him in painting titles) and then to Matisse, Soutine, De Kooning, Frankenthaler, Marlene Dumas, and Kara Walker.
Think of Courbet’s Stone Breakers, Millet’s Gleaners, van Gogh’s shoes, Monet’s Parisian scenes, Manet’s 1863 Luncheon on the Grass (painted the year Delacroix died).
It’s a beauty too, a pastel-colored winter scene painted the week van Gogh arrived from Paris in Arles.
It is esoteric in its relentless focus on drawing, and you really have to get up close to these works to wholly imbibe them — which will be difficult given crowds; also Michelangelo’s are not works on paper that we love or covet like those of Seurat, van Gogh, Goya, Hiroshige, Wang Hui, Bill Traylor, or Rembrandt; Michelangelo leaves us thunderstruck, his work almost alien.
Imagine collectors seeing their Marlene Dumas, Brice Marden, Luc Tuymans, Urs Fischer, or Jean-Michel Basquiat (all included in “Unfinished”) installed alongside Velázquez, Leonardo, Goya, Manet, Mondrian, or van Gogh.
Then the Met could shatter antiquated agreements that hold art hostage, agreements enforcing that works by Vuillard, Matisse, Picasso, van Gogh, Cézanne, and others can’t be seen together (and in fact are often required to be in two or three different locations within the Lehman, Annenberg, Smart, and other collections).
Ditto Matisse and van Gogh.
