His paintings are peppered with vestiges of Warhol, Matisse, Ellsworth Kelly, Gilbert & George, Michael Craig-Martin, Jack Youngerman, and Trevor Winkfield, to say nothing of graphic design and ’60s psychedelia.
Watch as Gerhard Richter, Ellsworth Kelly, Brice Marden, and others are turned into wallpaper.
And see if Ellsworth Kelly doesn’t win the Battle of the Six Picassos with his 1969 ink-on-cardboard nude that is all body parts and proportional shifts.
There’s a Brice Marden here, an Agnes Martin there; Jonathan Borofsky, Joel Shapiro, Joan Snyder, and Ellsworth Kelly pop up, as do Cézanne, Corot, Mondrian, and Grandma Moses.
How is this like or unlike other almost-monochrome works by Ellsworth Kelly, Barnett Newman, Agnes Martin, or Ad Reinhardt?
A small confession: I came to appreciate the paintings of Ellsworth Kelly, the artist I now think of as the American Matisse, in only the last ten or 15 years.
This is the work of Ellsworth Kelly, whose shaped, monochrome, opaque, hard-edged, stacked, and incandescently optical paintings have since the early 1950s — when, nearing the height of Abstract Expressionism in America, the young New York native, fresh from military service and the G.I. Bill and living in Paris — took a bold jolting turn into a new kind of geometric abstraction: minimal paintings that came as much from the facets of Cubism, Constructivism, and Mondrian as they did from Americans like Stuart Davies, Burgoyne Diller, and the young John Cage and Merce Cunningham, whom Kelly met in the French capital.
Along with Jasper Johns and Ellsworth Kelly, Stella is among the last great living postwar foundational artists, one of the creators of Minimalism itself.
Above is the legendary Ellsworth Kelly working out his tattoo design on Carter Foster’s forearm.
Matt Connors, whom I’m usually not a fan of and who is the show’s token Zombie Formalist, looks fantastic here with a gigantic, leaning three-panel painting that is Ellsworth Kelly and Brice Marden made by Richard Serra.
Whole careers have sprung in some part from The Cut-Outs, notably those of Robert Motherwell, Ellsworth Kelly, and Richard Tuttle.
As Ellsworth Kelly has remarked, Cézanne “come[s] to terms with this visual chaos”.
Sophie Taeuber-Arp’s crisp, colored drawings from the 1940s predict Agnes Martin and Ellsworth Kelly.
The youngest painter, Joe Bradley, 32, contributes three works that are boring, puckered versions of Ellsworth Kelly.
Storr is a well-known supporter of such artists as Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Sol LeWitt, Susan Rothenberg, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo, and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, and Nancy Spero, every one of whom is in his show.
The youngest painter, Joe Bradley, 32, has looked very good previously, but here contributes three works that are only boring versions of Ellsworth Kelly.
Storr is a well-known supporter of artists like Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Susan Rothenberg, Sol LeWitt, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, Kim Jones and Nancy Spero, all of whom are in his show.
