Some of these places are powerhouses like Mary Boone and Gagosian, although most didn’t exist five years ago.
At Mary Boone, Cotton gives us a group of academic photo-realist nudies that would look at home on the walls of third-tier Hollywood producers or blend in over bars in western movie saloons.
After all, the seven enormous spaces that line the north side of the block, from Mary Boone to Barbara Gladstone, tally up to over 43,000 square feet of space.
Next door, Schnabel’s former dealer Mary Boone—whom New York magazine dubbed “Queen of the Art Scene” 20 years ago, but whose stable now serves as an outpost for latter-day Photo Realists like Will Cotton and Damian Loeb—is giving another realist, Marcus Harvey, his American debut (541 West 24th Street, through April 27).
Ideally, drawing creates what the artist Amy Meyers (who recently debuted her elegant cosmic diagrams at Mary Boone uptown) calls “a place of zero resistance,” by which I think she means a place where you go deeper into yourself as the self is eclipsed.
Mary Boone is surrounded by power and money.
The first thing to say about Tom Sachs’s show at Mary Boone is that there’s an Alvar Aalto glass vase filled with live bullets on the reception desk.
Mary Boone continues her pursuit of hipness with a show of iffy visual punster Tom Sachs.
Sperone Westwater, Pace, Janis, and Mary Boone are all rumored to be relocating to Chelsea within the next year.
Incredibly, of the seven artists pictured in the course of the article, six are represented by or are affiliated with either Deitch Projects, Larry Gagosian, or Mary Boone— herself proclaimed “The New Queen of the Art Scene” on the cover of New York in 1982.
Peter Saul; Fake News Mary Boone 541 W. 24th Street / through October 28Thank God for Peter Saul, old-school 83-year old master blaster of wild color, free-riding political marauding, insanely twisting composition.
New York magazine features gallerist Mary Boone on its cover proclaiming her "The New Queen of the Art Scene".
