Similarly harrowing but more brooding was Chasing a Ghost, Nan Goldin’s three-screen lamentation to her suicide sister.
“Full House” extends this melancholy line to Nan Goldin’s masterpiece The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.
Fletcher’s walk-in documentary/hell-house is as coolly factual as Hans Haacke, as eagle-eyed as Louise Lawler, as pointed as Martha Rosler, and as offhand as Nan Goldin.
Throughout her career, but especially in her latest and most wrenching work— Sisters, Saints, & Sibyls, the 39-minute three-screen lamentation that is a duel memoir of her sister’s suicide at the age of 19 and her own mortifications of the flesh and battles with addiction—the photographer Nan Goldin has been one of the great living suicides of recent art history.
At her worst, which has often been the case since the mid 1990s, Goldin is a parody of herself, someone going through the motions, taking pictures that however raw and primitive still look like made-for-TV versions of Nan Goldin.
Especially impressive are Sturtevant’s room of art that looks like Duchamp’s work but throws representation out the window; Dorothy Iannone’s video of herself climaxing (as she says, “The one fleeting moment when you can see the soul as it passes over the face”); Billy Sullivan’s heartrending Nan Goldin–like slide show depicting an afternoon in a life and a whole life simultaneously; Robert Gober’s journey into hatred; Angela Strassheim’s penetrating photographs of people who are living more for the next life than this one; Jonathan Horowitz’s 19 portraits of the 9-11 hijackers placed surreptitiously throughout the museum; photos by Florian Maier-Aichen, Zoe Strauss, and Anne Collier; Trisha Donnelly’s blasting sound piece.
Some of the best pictures, including one of a princely Piotr Uklanski on his bed already looking like an Elizabeth Peyton painting, have a Nan Goldin noir quality about them.
Here, don’t miss Peter Hujar, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Nan Goldin, and David Wojnarowicz.
A quintessential drunk work is Two Sunbathers, a Nan Goldin–esque color photograph by Chris Smith, director of American Movie, one of the better films of the 1990s.
For better or worse, Nan Goldin is one of the most influential photographers of the last 20 years.
From the abject installations of Karen Kilimnik and Mike Kelley, to the realistic paintings and sculptures of Eric Fischl, Amy Adler, Jim Shaw, and Robert Gober, to the diaristic photographs of Wolfgang Tillmans, Nan Goldin, and Richard Billingham, artists have contemplated their origins, the subcultures of youth, and coming-of-age.
Peter Bellamy and Roland Hagenberg, for example, photographed dozens of 1980s artists; Nan Goldin, David Seidner, and Jack Pierson also dabbled in it.
Lee splices the dressing-up of Cindy Sherman with the snap-shotiness of Nan Goldin.
He’s moving beyond one of the more ubiquitous aesthetics of the 1990s, one he helped establish: the anything-young-is-good school of photography, an outgrowth of the apotheosis-of-the-snapshot genre, as practiced most recently by Nan Goldin, Jack Pierson, and the late Mark Morrisroe.
In 1989, the National Endowment for the Arts, under George H.W. Bush appointee John Frohnmayer, withdrew funding for Artists Space following the show “Witnesses: Against Our Vanishing,” curated by Nan Goldin.
Nan Goldin writes about her experiences with the opioid crisis, Kia LaBeija on being born HIV-positive (her topless cover self-portrait is about total risk and owning of self), and Donald Moffett’s what-might-have-been moment imaging Hillary Clinton’s presidential photographs makes you stop in your tracks with sadness.
I saw Richard Prince, Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman, Barbara Gladstone, Gavin Brown, John Currin, James Nares, Duncan Hannah, Max Blagg, Clarissa Dalrymple, Bob Colacello, Edit DeAk, Walter Robinson, Lisa Rosen, Christopher Wool, Warhol personages, and O’Brien’s last muse and wife, Gina Nanni.
1984-1991In the Reagan ’80s, photographers like Nan Goldin and Robert Mapplethorpe document a demimonde that looks like it might go extinct.
Friend of Julian Schnabel, Jeff Koons, Nan Goldin, Francesco Clemente, Peter Hujar, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Leonardo DiCaprio, Lil’ Kim, Chloë Sevigny, Miuccia Prada, Sean Penn, Helmut Lang, Todd Solondz, k.d. lang, Valentino, and Veronica Webb, and nurturer and torturer of gifted writers like Rene Ricard and Lisa Liebmann, this Sarah Lawrence graduate was a poster child for the unbridled desire of the 1980s, its creative pretentiousness in its very best and most crazy forms, the one who helped integrate underground, mainstream, fashion, rock ‘n’ roll, and anyone who showed up and tried to make a connection.
Few would argue with Philip Glass, Francis Ford Coppola, Nan Goldin’s Ballad of Sexual Dependency, Kara Walker, and maybe Matthew Barney — though he is often castigated and snickered at for his form.
Nan Goldin unveiled pictures of the people, dying and dead, whom we’d met in her previous decade of work.
Pollock, Rauschenberg, and Nan Goldin are drunk; Warhol, Johns, and Cindy Sherman are stoned.
Pollock, Rauschenberg and Nan Goldin are drunk; Warhol, Johns and Cindy Sherman are stoned.
Nan Goldin presents her great slideshow / soap opera / book of the dead / manifesto of the beautiful and the damned, "The Ballad of Sexual Dependency," at the Mudd Club.
The show includes Sarah Charlesworth, Larry Clark, Fab 5 Freddy, Robert Mapplethorpe, Keith Haring, Nan Goldin, Kenny Scharf, Kiki Smith, Robin Winters and others.
Fletcher's walk-in documentary hell-house is as coolly factual as Hans Haacke, as eagle-eyed as Louise Lawler, as pointed as Martha Rosler and as offhand as Nan Goldin.
Throughout her career, but especially in her latest and most wrenching work -- Sisters, Saints, & Sibyls, the 39-minute three-screen lamentation that is a duel memoir of her sister's suicide at the age of 19 and her own mortifications of the flesh and battles with addiction -- the photographer Nan Goldin has been one of the great living suicides of recent art history.
