(This was done far better 20 years ago by Walter Robinson.
Some, like Walter Robinson and Larry Clark, we see when they were young and beautiful.
I saw Richard Prince, Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman, Barbara Gladstone, Gavin Brown, John Currin, James Nares, Duncan Hannah, Max Blagg, Clarissa Dalrymple, Bob Colacello, Edit DeAk, Walter Robinson, Lisa Rosen, Christopher Wool, Warhol personages, and O’Brien’s last muse and wife, Gina Nanni.
About that, they should relax — or, as artist and critic Walter Robinson recently wrote, “strive to overcome their revulsion for the market, if only because booming art sales are singularly responsible for today’s supersized art world”.
Just vapid variants of the look-alike Crapstraction we see around us, what’s now known as Zombie Formalism, the perfect name given to it by artist Walter Robinson.
As with Schutz, Berhardt’s work is more untamed and eccentric than much of the current crop of all-over, almost monochrome, process-based abstraction and more ironically minded painting that is rocking the market, mesmerizing curators and collectors, and that has already spawned legions of imitators and so-called Zombie Formalism (Pace artist Walter Robinson).
Painter Walter Robinson who coined the term, remarked, “If bad abstraction is the problem then the virus spreading it is money”.
I like Dropcloth Abstraction, and especially the term coined by the artist-critic Walter Robinson: Zombie Formalism.
The painter-critic Walter Robinson recently wrote that work like Jackson’s “lacks any sense of mystery and is a sign that the avant-garde sensibility is now so commonplace, widely known, and understood that it actually approaches the status of kitsch”.
I have long known and loved Walter Robinson, the great Khan and pasha-in-chief of Artnet.com’s online magazine, the best, most effervescent, no-bullshittiest art site around.
Like Finch, Walter Robinson should be hired right away by anyone interested in page views.
Walter Robinson?
Walter Robinson, the editor of Artnet Magazine in the U.S., is seeking opportunities elsewhere, as are his editorial staff, news editor Rachel Corbett and assistant editor Emily Nathan.
It included work by unknowns Jenny Holzer, David Hammons, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Keith Haring, Kiki Smith, Walter Robinson and many others who were making a loose street-wise non-academic, non-post-minimal art.
(This was done far better 20 years ago by painter Walter Robinson.
