The best of Rachel Harrison’s smartly snarky, heavily attitudinal, sometimes traditional-looking new free-standing sculptural amalgamations—some of which sport stuffed chickens and diet drinks—look as if Robert Rauschenberg, Jean Dubuffet, Louise Nevelson, and John Chamberlain made sculptures together and had Renoir and Hans Hoffmann paint them while Jessica Stockholder, Isa Genzken, and Franz West kibitzed.
Even so, MOMA’s narrative wouldn’t be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch, and Claude Cahun.
Good or bad, questionable or not, Louise Nevelson would be brought back into the mix, as would Marisol, Arman, Alice Neel, Paula Rego, Elaine de Kooning, and H.C. Westermann.
We see this cast of also-rans reminiscing about how Robert Motherwell once painted a tile in the ceramics studio, or the afternoon Louise Nevelson used the wood shop.
There, he received admirers like Louise Nevelson, Milton Avery, and the young Willem de Kooning.
Before her, Frida Kahlo, Alice Neel, and Louise Nevelson regularly were relegated to the ghetto.
Ask yourself if hanging any of the following artists would really ruin the narrative espoused by the museum: Barbara Hepworth, Louise Nevelson, Louise Bourgeois, Joan Mitchell, Dorthea Rockburne, Yoko Ono, and Florine Stettheimer.
As for the Whitney, it was a pretty male preserve until sculptor Louise Nevelson showed her work in 1967.
Before her, Frida Kahlo, Alice Neel and Louise Nevelson regularly were relegated to the ghetto.
Ask yourself if hanging any of the following artists would really ruin the narrative espoused by the museum: Barbara Hepworth, Louise Nevelson, Louise Bourgeois, Joan Mitchell, Dorthea Rockburne, Yoko Ono and Florine Stettheimer.
The best of Rachel Harrison's smartly snarky, heavily attitudinal, sometimes traditional-looking new free-standing sculptural amalgamations -- some of which sport stuffed chickens and diet drinks -- look as if Robert Rauschenberg, Jean Dubuffet, Louise Nevelson and John Chamberlain made sculptures together and had Renoir and Hans Hoffmann paint them while Jessica Stockholder, Isa Genzken and Franz West kibitzed.
Even so, MOMA's narrative wouldn't be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch and Claude Cahun.
