The last time I felt this kind of electricity surging through an art scene was in 1997 when Klaus Biesenbach staged the first Berlin Biennial.
There were also surveys of Jacob Lawrence and Joaquín Torres-Garcia, and by Klaus Biesenbach himself, the Wael Shawky show at MoMA/PS1 — one of the best shows of the year.
As organized by Klaus Biesenbach with Margaret Aldredge, the show couldn’t be better, or more ably installed.
But he did watch and tweet and Instagram from afar, depicting his imagined revelry of real-life attendees such as Marina Abramovic, Klaus Biesenbach, Miley Cyrus, Kim Kardashian, and Hans-Ulrich Obrist.
K8 Hardy’s feed is a killer anti-fashion fashion magazine and should be published by MoMA’s own P.T. Barnum, Klaus Biesenbach, who is known for his pics of wherever he travels, and as a curator, he travels loads, even if he does seem to be with other curators, Marina Abramovic, and James Franco an awful lot of the time.
The “show” is a sky-blue mini-double-decker van with the faces of art-world movers and shakers, like Marina Abramovic, Klaus Biesenbach (saying “I do not like it”), Richard Serra, Larry Gagosian, and Jeff Koons.
She deserves serious attention, but Björk’s archival materials and costumes, here curated by Klaus Biesenbach, will essentially only tell us what we already know: that she’s an incredibly innovative pop musician.
Instead, the curators—Connie Butler, Neville Wakefield, and Klaus Biesenbach, the museum world’s unofficial czar these days—favor things that are “about” painting, like Dave Miko’s canvas propped on a little shelf with drips painted on the wall behind it, carrying the heavy-handed title Lonely Merch Guy.
In an interview she talks to curator Klaus Biesenbach about “our deepest craving to be synchronized with others” and “our love for fluids and water”.
Just then I spied Klaus Biesenbach, the curator of the Rist installation.
In an interview she talks to curator Klaus Biesenbach about "our deepest craving to be synchronized with others" and "our love for fluids and water".
