And I’m afraid it took until 2015, when Donald Trump came down that escalator, and started spewing that kind of foul hatred, laced with sexism, and then finally, the …LS: Pussy grabbing.
Donald Trump’s full-page ad placed in all New York newspapers on May 1, 1989, is here too.
Serrano has said, “I wanted to paint a portrait of Donald Trump using his own brushes … Ever since the ’80s, Donald Trump has been associating himself with a particular vision of American success … that paints him as all-American”.
Rather than focusing on any of this, and paying scant attention to the rot in our own country and refusing to address the seriousness of climate change, we’ve created the 24-7 sideshow fixation on the impossibility of having elected Donald Trump as president.
At the beautiful uptown ADAA show a jarring standout is the great hell-raising storm-bird proto-Pop genius Peter Saul and two wildly colored Day-Glo abstract-figurative quasi-portraits — Abstract Expressionist Portrait of Donald Trump and The Little Guy Gets Angry — which the artist says is a portrait of “a Trump voter”.
Artist Christoph Büchel has created an online petition to declare Donald Trump’s eight border-wall prototypes — now standing in California — a permanent national monument.
At the bottom of this hellish vision, a Black Panther figure gives a Black Power salute as he holds the severed head of Donald Trump branded with a swastika on its forehead.
) sticks a knife or pen into the bloated belly of a fat, hands-up, naked Donald Trump.
He gives the Black Power salute and holds aloft by the hair the severed head of Donald Trump.
And there he is again, Donald Trump.
It’s all politics, but there was enough good art and optical agency in “Wrong Side of History” to recommend the show: In addition to well-knowns — including Martha Rosler, Shirin Neshat, Raymond Pettibon, Sue Coe, Lady Pink, Lee Quinones, Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt, and David Wojnarowicz — there’s Robert Upham, of the Dakota Sioux, whose new ledger drawing was made at the recent Standing Rock protests; Australian Colleen O’Reilly’s knotty drawing of a woman raising her leg to pee on a tubby Donald Trump; and a beautiful painting by gallerist Andrew Castrucci’s mother, Dolores, of a recent American air raid in the Middle East.
One of them is Donald Trump’s body — and the way he talks about and acts around other people’s bodies, particularly women’s bodies.
In the lower part of the picture, a Donald Trump for President cup.
I thought of our own Donald Trump (who grew up in a Bates-like Tudor revival home in Jamaica Estates), the way he bought the rights to beauty pageants like Miss Universe and Miss Teen USA, and his Trump Tower, where he lives and works mostly from his pink-white marbled, mirrored, brass-covered tower.
