Lisa Yuskavage’s new color-infused paintings of naked sloe-eyed girls with melon-like breasts, erect nipples, and contorted bodies have the presence of lap dances.
An early Lisa Yuskavage one reads, “Chicks with jugs/Manned engines of ambivalence”; a Sarah Sze invite mentions “soaring/less improvisational”; a Jules de Balincourt note simply says, “still in school”.
Oldsters like Peter Saul, Jim Nutt, and John Wesley have manipulated the figure for years; and younger artists like Lisa Yuskavage, Kara Walker, Karen Kilimnik, and Trenton Doyle Hancock must think they’re illustrating something.
If nothing else, it made the realism, eccentricities, subject choices, and painterly styles of artists as diverse as Karen Kilimnik, Elizabeth Peyton, Laura Owens, Sean Landers, Lisa Yuskavage, and John Currin—all of whom were just beginning to show—make more sense than they might have otherwise.
Artists like John Currin and Lisa Yuskavage also work figuratively and are earnest about what they paint, but they’re in an ongoing conversation with the ways and means of the avant-garde, and are more engaged in overturning and undermining clichés.
And while painters like John Currin and Lisa Yuskavage are rightly lauded for their “skill,” these women are looking into alternative definitions of the term.
It doesn’t matter who they are (and none of them are that important), but in an article in this month’s Art Newspaper, a ’90s painting phenom calls ’90s art “as nutrient-free as television”; an art-market analyst opines that “John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, and Elizabeth Peyton .
This doesn’t make Phillips—who is excavating the terrain between John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, and Mel Ramos—a better artist.
She cited Lisa Yuskavage, Vanessa Beecroft, and Kara Walker as “suspect,” and scarily warned, “Harkness better be gay to paint these paintings”.
John Currin and Lisa Yuskavage look very good here.
The problem isn’t that Brown’s paintings feel old; it’s that they aren’t old in interesting ways (as are John Currin’s, Lisa Yuskavage’s, or Elizabeth Peyton’s).
Perhaps none more than Michelangelo: Just consider, for instance, the ways that he sneaks in humongous giantesses into this Christian scenario, or the way that Michelangelo’s acrid floral coloring in this massive painting changes art history, filtering down to us not only through the genius of Pontormo, Parmigianino, and Bronzino, but from Ensor to the Expressionists all the way to artists like Lisa Yuskavage and John Currin — and is thousands of thankful miles from all of Leonardo’s brown.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Back then, along with varieties of neo-conceptual multiculturalism, identity-based art and installation, and nascent relational aesthetics, painting was primarily figurative — John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, Marlene Dumas, Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, Luc Tuymans, etc.
Shaw’s activities can be seen to presage artists like John Currin, Elizabeth Peyton, Lisa Yuskavage, Karen Kilimnik, Sean Landers, and others — all of whom explored then-unused visual painterly information.
In different ways, each has been instrumental in a transition that painting has made since then, from the more traditionally skillful, twisted figuration practiced in this country, especially by John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, and Elizabeth Peyton, among others.
Lisa Yuskavage            David Zwirner            533 W. 19th St., through June 13            Lisa Yuskavage has added a wrinkle to her 20-year obsession with depicting women masturbating posed with legs spread so wide it was almost embarrassing to look (a weird feeling to have in the presence of something painted so beautifully), voluptuaries with erect nipples, sloe-eyed beauties, bushy pudenda, and freakishly twiggy women.
Lisa Yuskavage at David Zwirner Just as I was dismissing Yuskavage’s new candy-colored paintings of young buxom monstrosities as more of her typical calendar-art sci-fi kitsch, my wife whispered to me, “These are all sacrifices”.
The same bogus arguments come up every time there’s a Lisa Yuskavage show.
Lisa Yuskavage           David Zwirner.
Lisa Yuskavage at David Zwirner  Just as I was dismissing Lisa Yuskavage’s new candy-colored paintings of young buxom monstrosities as more of her typical calendar-art sci-fi kitsch, my wife whispered to me, “These are all sacrifices”.
Lisa Yuskavage, Feb.
An early Lisa Yuskavage one reads, "Chicks with jugs/Manned engines of ambivalence"; a Sarah Sze invite mentions "soaring/less improvisational"; a Jules de Balincourt note simply says, "still in school".
