Names like George W. Bush, Ronald Reagan, Henry Kissinger, Meyer Lansky, Saddam Hussein, and Osama bin Laden pop up.
Lawrence R. Rinder, the chief curator and main mind behind this year’s Biennial, is, like George W. Bush, a “protectionist” trying to make it easier for his products to find their way to the marketplace.
At Friedrich Petzel, Richard Phillips’s big, gray-toned portrait of George W. Bush really looks different.
In the months before September 11, 2001, in the long stupor following George W. Bush being named president by the Supreme Court, German Über-photographer Andreas Gursky — known for his totalizing pictures of atriums, raves, hotel lobbies, and trading floors — made a spectacular color photograph of a Los Angeles big-box store.
Ang Lee’s Brokeback Mountain arrived only a year after anti-gay-marriage ballot initiatives helped propel George W. Bush to reelection.
I’ve written before about how freaked out I was contemplating the intense, almost village-idiot-like unself-conscious paintings of George W. Bush.
Watching Shawky’s characters forever recounting the reasons for their killing, I remembered a reporter once asking a Bosnian warlord how a particular skirmish began and hearing him flatly begin, “Well, back in 1385 …” Shawky’s films remind us that only one day after September 11, 2001, George W. Bush called for a “crusade”.
In other words, to know how far down the rabbit hole we’ve come; at this point George W. Bush is actually a better artist than James Franco.
When I look at the paintings of George W. Bush, it’s like seeing an incubus on America, as freakish and off-putting as his presidency was.
Critic Peter Plagens is furious about it: “The whole kerfuffle about George W. Bush’s paintings is the result of a clever political maneuver by the forces of the Right (a.k.a. the Republican Party) to soften the Bush name so that Jeb can make a presidential run … Who the f**k cares about George Bush’s paintings!
Nevertheless, I’m compelled to examine what’s here, since it seems unlikely that—except perhaps by the alchemy of art, which makes unpredictable things come to light—a man like George W. Bush will ever come to consciousness or make a confession of the destruction he wrought.
Rachel Mason, Doll Audience (2014)Envoy Enterprises, 87 Rivington StreetOnce I saw this gremlin’s 2004 sculpture of herself kissing George W. Bush, I understood that she had a chance to wreak havoc.
I like something about George W. Bush.
After spending more than a decade having almost physiological-chemical reactions anytime I saw him, getting the heebie-jeebies whenever he spoke — after being sure from the start that he was a Gremlin on the wing of America — I really like the paintings of George W. Bush.
But George W. Bush?
That said, I never voted for George W. Bush.
Do they remember that only a year ago George W. Bush was decorating his office with generic cowboy paintings — plus Saddam Hussein’s pistol?
