In the fall of 1968, artist Jim Nutt happened across these drawings.
Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius, or Jim Nutt—none of whom are included—would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
This biennial might have twinkled more had the curators switched a few of the big names for slightly less predictable big names: Mary Heilmann instead of Robert Mangold, Jim Nutt rather than David Hockney, William Eggleston instead of Jack Pierson, Lee Bontecou rather than Alex Hay, and R. Crumb and Cady Noland instead of Paul McCarthy and Richard Prince.
Oldsters like Peter Saul, Jim Nutt, and John Wesley have manipulated the figure for years; and younger artists like Lisa Yuskavage, Kara Walker, Karen Kilimnik, and Trenton Doyle Hancock must think they’re illustrating something.
Back in the late 1970s, when I was a young artist (yes, I was once one, too) and still living in Chicago, Jim Nutt was the enemy.
His doodleyness and linearity remind us of Miró, Oyvind Fahlstrom, and Jim Nutt, while his armageddon battle scenes are pure Henry Darger.
These are the paintings that come closest to Peter Saul, Kenny Scharf, or Chicago Imagists like Carl Wirsum, Barbara Rossi, and Jim Nutt.
There are still too many undigested references in Essenhigh’s work, among them Jim Nutt, Carl Wirsum, Matthew Ritchie, and Valerio Adami, but her paintings feel authentic and have a nice, if too standardized, no-touch touch.
Two years after that, Whitney Halstead — who happened to be my teacher and the very same person who organized that 1971 SAIC show — discovered Yoakum’s work and started showing it to Chicago artists like Jim Nutt, Gladys Nilsson, Roger Brown, Christina Ramberg, Karl Wirsum, and others.
)Kind showed Imagists like Jim Nutt (who helped discover Ramírez), Ed Paschke (Jeff Koons’s teacher), Karl Wirsum, Barbara Rossi, Gladys Nilsson, Robert Colescott (whose work about race is still too hot for many museums to touch), Sue Ellen Rocca, Roger Brown, Ray Yoshida, and many others I soon came to admire.
To this day, most permanent collections exclude geniuses like Bill Traylor, Adolf Wölfli, Martin Ramírez, Henry Darger, to say nothing of Gee’s Bend quilts, Hilma Af Klint, Emma Kunz, Marsden Hartley, Louis Eilshemius, George Ohr, James Castle, Forrest Bess, Jess, Jay DeFeo, Ray Johnson, Jim Nutt, Asger Jorn, Beauford Delaney, Bob Thompson, Robert Colescott, Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Paula Rego, and H.C. Westermann.
At the time, I imagined that our nonrepresentational, process-or-performance-based, and conceptual art would save Chicago from a group of artists whom I now love, the figurative surrealists — Jim Nutt, Roger Brown, Christina Ramberg, Gladys Nilsson, and Jeff Koons’s teacher Ed Paschke — known as Chicago Imagists.
The first time her work was ever seen outside her native New Zealand gave us fabulous graphite and colored-pencil, crayon, and ink conglomerations of Donald Duck, Willem de Kooning, Jim Nutt, Roy Lichtenstein, and Carroll Dunham.
Included are strange abstract combinations or knitted-together landscapes of cartoon parts, notably Donald Duck, arranged in ways that echo Willem de Kooning, Jim Nutt’s meticulous piecing together of body parts and distortion, Roy Lichtenstein’s stylized cartooning, and Carroll Dunham’s deft space and line.
Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius or Jim Nutt -- none of whom are included -- would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
