I also really liked Dave Muller’s wall, Erick Swenson’s elegant deer, Harrell Fletcher’s James Joyce video, Andrea Zittel’s kooky study center, Emily Jacir’s Palestinian project, Aïda Ruilova’s bombarding video snippets, the extraordinary music of Antony and the Johnsons, Eve Sussman’s video Velázquez, Deborah Stratman’s film in the Simparch installation, Marina Abramovic’s poignant video, Jim Hodges, Spencer Finch, Yutaka Sone, Catherine Sullivan, and the best yet Central Park sculpture installations.
Then there’s Marina Abramovic and Ulay, Clegg & Guttman, Wallace & Donahue, and Pruitt & Early, who are not— and let’s not forget Collins & Milazzo, who weren’t artists, but certainly were a pair.
For 736 hours, New Age–like guru artist Marina Abramovic hypnotized the mass public into thinking that sitting across from her in MoMA’s atrium and looking at her would be enough to carry them away to ecstatic heights of self-revelation.
More recently, I remember being stupefied as I watched him out-cool Jay Z in that notorious “Picasso Baby” video where Marina Abramovic and a bunch of other celebrities danced and sang with the rap star.
(He too made early videos of himself interviewing celebrities like Marina Abramovic, Hans Ulrich Obrist, and Lady Gaga.
In 2005, Performa launches the first performance biennial, with identity-focused artists including Marina Abramovic, Ron Athey, Sharon Hayes, and Clifford Owens, whose later show at PS1, “Anthology,” restages the whole history of performance art from the perspective of excluded black artists by performing particular “scripts” — one of which, written by Pope.
Almost overnight, as if word from above and the cosmos must have created an inner course correction — like that, all the celeb selfies with James Franco, Lady Gaga, Marina Abramovic, Rupert Murdoch’s ex-wife, and all sorts of other party shots simply stopped.
Some of these boldfaced names range relatively far afield: Miley Cyrus has gone big into sculpture (and was compared by art impresario Jeffrey Deitch to Mike Kelley), and last year, Jay Z took a page from Marina Abramovic’s performance act (full disclosure: I sort of fell for it).
But he did watch and tweet and Instagram from afar, depicting his imagined revelry of real-life attendees such as Marina Abramovic, Klaus Biesenbach, Miley Cyrus, Kim Kardashian, and Hans-Ulrich Obrist.
Marina Abramovic with her dealer Sean Kelley and and Stedejlk Director Beatrix Ruff at a ABMB dinner ordering more wine I think.
K8 Hardy’s feed is a killer anti-fashion fashion magazine and should be published by MoMA’s own P.T. Barnum, Klaus Biesenbach, who is known for his pics of wherever he travels, and as a curator, he travels loads, even if he does seem to be with other curators, Marina Abramovic, and James Franco an awful lot of the time.
The “show” is a sky-blue mini-double-decker van with the faces of art-world movers and shakers, like Marina Abramovic, Klaus Biesenbach (saying “I do not like it”), Richard Serra, Larry Gagosian, and Jeff Koons.
When performers like Kanye West, Kim Kardashian, Lady Gaga, and, yes, Jeff Koons and Marina Abramovic try so hard to showcase and communicate how sincere they are, instead they reveal how out-of-touch they are — from each other, from themselves, from us.
“Bound 2” is certainly a piece of work — as bizarrely gonzo and creepily asexual as Jeff Koons’s hyperrealistic 1991 paintings of himself having sex with his then-wife Cicciolina, John Currin’s 1989 paintings of Breck girls, and Marina Abramovic’s staring at spectators at MoMA in 2010.
Of course there was Marina Abramovic’s naked-people-on-dinner-tables annual gala event.
Maybe best of all was Marina Abramovic herself.
Better yet, Jay-Z even got me to actually start liking Marina Abramovic.
When I heard that he’d cooperated with these dueling shows, just a year before the Whitney’s big 2014 survey of his work, I thought the museum should cancel the whole thing, and let MoMA put Koons in a box with a sleeping Tilda Swinton and a staring Marina Abramovic amid a yard sale in the atrium and be done with it.
The addiction kicked in big-time a few seasons back when Marina Abramovic, the self-styled mystic guru of staring and making people cry just by looking in their eyes, sat in the museum’s atrium for months as people lined up for the chance to sit across from her and say they were part of the art.
People spent whole days sitting face-to-face with Marina Abramovic in MoMA’s atrium.
There was a marvelous exhibition of Lee Bontecou, as well as shows devoted to Marina Abramovic, the women of Fluxus, and the films of Maya Deren.
For the past two months, Marina Abramovic’s large-scale 40-year retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art, “The Artist Is Present”—featuring Abramovic herself, seated in queenly fashion in the museum’s atrium, nude performers re-creating her past work, and lots of audience participation—has turned the usually introspective institutional sphere into an existential circus of bizarre self-help.
Welcome to “The Artist Is Present,” the first full-on retrospective of the hard-core Yugoslavian-born performance and body artist Marina Abramovic.
Welcome to "The Artist Is Present," the first full-on retrospective of the hard-core Yugoslavian-born performance and body artist Marina Abramovic.
Marina Abramovic: The Artist Is Present," Mar.
