If that avatar of the new and often glitzy, Jeffrey Deitch, does what he says he’s going to do this September, and he’s been talking about it for a year, a branch of Deitch Projects—our own mini Barnum and Bailey meets Peggy Guggenheim—will open in a rented 4000-square-foot ground floor on North 11th Street in the heart of Williamsburg, not far from several of this neighborhood’s, and some of New York’s, coolest galleries.
On the downside, Deitch Projects’ move represents another step in Williamsburg’s gentrification, which has already seen artists displaced.
Deitch Projects in Williamsburg may be an infection or the beginning of a mutually beneficial parasitical relationship.
His retrospective fills the New Museum, and his giant 1991 installation, The Garden—a dystopic animatronic landscape of earth- and tree-fucking weirdos—occupies Deitch Projects (18 Wooster Street, through April 7).
Lane Twitchell’s intensely decorative paper cutouts, which look like mandalas and tell coded tales of Mormonism and the American west, will be on view at Deitch Projects.
Incredibly, of the seven artists pictured in the course of the article, six are represented by or are affiliated with either Deitch Projects, Larry Gagosian, or Mary Boone— herself proclaimed “The New Queen of the Art Scene” on the cover of New York in 1982.
The turn-of-the-millennium artist Terence Koh started bigger, with Deitch Projects, then moved all over the place, turning up in Kunsthalles and even Charles Saatchi’s private museum.
(The question of what would happen to Deitch Projects if he takes the MoCA job is an interesting one.
At Deitch Projects, Jon Kessler gives us a mad, whirling circus of spinning cameras, television monitors, toy soldiers being dragged around on their asses, visions of torture, mayhem, sex, and clowns.
At Deitch Projects, Jon Kessler gives us a mad, whirling circus of spinning cameras, television monitors, toy soldiers being dragged around on their asses, visions of torture, mayhem, sex and clowns.
4, 2009, at Deitch Projects, 76 Grand Street, New York, N.Y. 10013Rudolf Stingel, Feb.
