Surveying the new super-expanded mega-digs of David Zwirner, I wondered, “How big can Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch paint?
In contrast, the so-called “Leipzig painters” at Boesky fizzle not just because such geographical groupings are contrived but because too many of these beginners owe too much to Albert Oehlen and Neo Rauch.
Ditto Laura Owens, who approaches every drawing as an occasion to rethink drawing; Neo Rauch, whose works on paper aren’t that different from his paintings but are so good it doesn’t matter; Barry McGee’s turbocharged wall of drawings; Franz Ackermann’s 34 studies of a walk through Pittsburgh (with provocative titles like Cinema Beirut and Former Trade Center); John Currin, not because his drawings are so good but because they’re so weird; and Elizabeth Peyton, whose drawings aren’t as juicy as her paintings but are still captivating.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Neo Rauch, At the Well David Zwirner, 533 W. 19th St. Through Dec.
20 Painters love the large scale, secondary color, pictorial ambition, historical references, and swashbuckling brushwork of Neo Rauch’s paintings.
Without this painting there is no work by an artist like Neo Rauch.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel, and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jorge Immendorff.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jörg Immendorff.
Surveying the new super-expanded mega-digs of David Zwirner, I wondered, "How big can Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch paint"?
Neo Rauch's museum-scaled paintings, composed of major but outmoded styles, produce a kind of psycho-visual whiplash, caroming between overwhelming physical power and spirit-numbing optical monotony.
