When Glenn Lowry, MOMA’s director, told me “the museum was seriously considering” some of my suggestions, I asked, “What about ’75 Years’?
Skittish and perhaps envious of MOMA’s erudite director, Glenn Lowry, the Whitney’s board cast about for a Lowry clone.
The heads of both institutions, Glenn Lowry and Alanna Heiss, were greeting people at the opening, a euphoric event that not surprisingly had people lined up around the block.
At one point during the initial presentation (that included several museum bigs), director Glenn Lowry said “MoMA is trying not to take itself too seriously”.
Today—History by Rachel CorbettThis project was assembled from interviews with John Ahearn, Dennis Barrie, Frank Benson, Homi Bhabha, Claire Bishop, Francesco Bonami, AA Bronson, Susan Cahan, Dan Cameron, Rodriguez Calero, Leidy Churchman, Bridget R. Cooks, Lauren Cornell, Holland Cotter, Douglas Crimp, Vaginal Davis, Kimberly Drew, Grace Dunham, Peter Eleey, Darby English, Okwui Enwezor, Awol Erizku, Teresita Fernández, Karen Finley, Hal Foster, Coco Fusco, Massimiliano Gioni, Alison Gingeras, RoseLee Goldberg, Claudia Gould, Thyrza Nichols Goodeve, Paul Ha, K8 Hardy, Steven P. Henry, Dave Hickey, Matthew Higgs, Laura Hoptman, Chrissie Iles, Jay Z, Rashid Johnson, Pepe Karmel, Jennifer Kidwell, Christopher Y. Lew, Kalup Linzy, Glenn Lowry, Jessica Lynne, Daniel J. Martinez, Steven Henry Madoff, Carrie Moyer, Jayson Musson, Shirin Neshat, Linda Norden, Catherine Opie, Clifford Owens, Ann Philbin, Lisa Phillips, Pope.
On January 8, Museum of Modern Art director Glenn Lowry and the architects Diller Scofidio + Renfro made public their scheme to redesign and expand MoMA.
All these partial solutions involve putting art first, and Glenn Lowry isn’t doing that.
) Meanwhile, the namesakes of the starchitecture firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro, joined by MoMA director Glenn Lowry, whirred on about accessibility, flow, institutional interfacing with the city, connectivity, navigational legibility, surgical interventions, gestures of variation on the white cube and the black box (don’t ask), social and performative space, micro-galleries, auto-critique, and “a large new architecturally significant staircase”.
) MoMA director Glenn Lowry calls this “an incredible opportunity”.
When Glenn Lowry, MoMA's director, told me "the museum was seriously considering" some of my suggestions, I asked, "What about '75 Years'"?
