Other highs include Adam Cvijanovic’s clairvoyant Tiepolo-esque deluge at Bellwether, Katherine Bernhardt’s wild paintings at Canada, and the wondrous cut-out trees by Yuken Teruya at Josee Bienvenu.
That’s how I feel about the raucous work of 26-year-old Katherine Bernhardt, whose paintings are some of the loosest around.
Along with a handful of other artists (notably Nicole Eisenman, Katherine Bernhardt, Judith Linhares, and Amy Sillman), she is a progenitor of a kind of abstract-imaginative figuration, keyed-up color, and looser gesture that is now widespread.
LaToya Ruby Frazier’s straight documentary photography has reignited this sleeping form and made it into a raging beast; Louis Fratino’s personal, painterly depictions of everyday gay life raise the bar of figurative-visionary painting, as do the stitched, painted, and sewn works of Tschabalala Self; ditto Katherine Bernhardt.
Take the old elevator up to the ninth floor, wind through corridors into a space covered in ravishing Moroccan rugs (for sale cheap) that wild-child painter Katherine Bernhardt has made so well-known.
Meanwhile, on the ground floor of the same building are the super-optical fabulous-monsters of painter Katherine Bernhardt.
Just inside the door is one of the hottest painters around, Katherine Bernhardt.
Dana Schutz and Katherine Bernhardt are among the liveliest American painters to emerge in this country in 15 years, and both opened big new shows over two nights a few weeks ago.
Which brings us to Katherine Bernhardt.
I’m thinking, for example, of the blasted-looking abstract paintings of Lucy Dodd; the scorching color and rash repeating orders of Katherine Bernhardt; the erratic organization and Eros of Keltie Ferris; the maybe-too-pretty but hobbled Modernism of Patricia Treib; the all-out discontentedness and retinal attack of Bjarne Melgaard; the insane glutted flat surfaces of Borna Sammak.
One of its most indispensible (if out-there), wild-style painters is Katherine Bernhardt, who can always be depended on to push her gashing brushwork, gushing color, and gaudy, all-over composition to ever feral and smart heights.
Among the very impressive work included is a fabulous Day-Glo painting that turns into a face that turns into a magic spell by newcomer Austin Lee (who debuted to such excellent effect at Postmasters last season), some small-scale gaudy beauties by Bjarne Melgaard, a wonder sculpture in the window by Theo Rosenblum, some recent wild-style knockouts by Katherine Bernhardt (who has been killing it every time out of late), and, most intriguing, a wall of Greek ceramic-painting style meets Japanese anime meets something two-dimensional and monstrous by Giovanni Garcia-Fenech, whose work I hadn’t seen but now yen to see more of, soon.
Katherine Bernhardt, Hamburgers, French Fries, and Basketballs (2013)Canada, 333 Broome StreetOne of the most out-there, loose painters work.
Katherine Bernhardt, Hamburgers, French Fries, and Basketballs (2013)Canada, 333 Broome StreetOne of the most out-there, loose painters working right now.
As seen at Eleven Rivington, Dryer’s constructed shapes, pieced-together diptychs, and propped panels are antecedents to much of the better literalized, concrete, physical abstract painting being made well now by artists like Hayley Tompkins, Lisa Beck, Wendy White, Keltie Ferris, Katherine Bernhardt, Ulrike Muller, and Sarah Crowner.
Katherine Bernhardt  At the Hole The art world digs guys who paint big, gestural, and figurative.
Enter the always unruly Katherine Bernhardt, who’s been wowing me with her wild-style painting for ten years.
Katherine Bernhardt At the HoleThe art world digs guys who paint big, gestural, and figurative.
Other highs include Adam Cvijanovic's clairvoyant Tiepolo-esque deluge at Bellwether, Katherine Bernhardt's wild paintings at Canada, the wondrous cut-out trees by Yuken Teruya at Josee Bienvenu, Lisa Sanditz's fulminating paintings at CRG, and the two tour-de-force installations, one by Tom Buckardt at Caren Golden, the other by Jim Isermann at Deitch.
