“I was really excited to see a theme that felt familiar to me in the context of great art and the historical canon,” says the artist Rashid Johnson.
“I didn’t know I could be an artist before I saw that work,” says Rashid Johnson.
) “It’s the first time that you see a real embrace, institutionally and commercially, for the work of artists who’ve had a difficult time being embraced prior,” says Rashid Johnson.
“I thought it was a really good show,” says Rashid Johnson, one of the younger artists included.
But we met with Rashid Johnson at a round table at Balthazar and we said you’re one of the younger artists we’re curating into the show and we want to know how you feel about it.
Today—History by Rachel CorbettThis project was assembled from interviews with John Ahearn, Dennis Barrie, Frank Benson, Homi Bhabha, Claire Bishop, Francesco Bonami, AA Bronson, Susan Cahan, Dan Cameron, Rodriguez Calero, Leidy Churchman, Bridget R. Cooks, Lauren Cornell, Holland Cotter, Douglas Crimp, Vaginal Davis, Kimberly Drew, Grace Dunham, Peter Eleey, Darby English, Okwui Enwezor, Awol Erizku, Teresita Fernández, Karen Finley, Hal Foster, Coco Fusco, Massimiliano Gioni, Alison Gingeras, RoseLee Goldberg, Claudia Gould, Thyrza Nichols Goodeve, Paul Ha, K8 Hardy, Steven P. Henry, Dave Hickey, Matthew Higgs, Laura Hoptman, Chrissie Iles, Jay Z, Rashid Johnson, Pepe Karmel, Jennifer Kidwell, Christopher Y. Lew, Kalup Linzy, Glenn Lowry, Jessica Lynne, Daniel J. Martinez, Steven Henry Madoff, Carrie Moyer, Jayson Musson, Shirin Neshat, Linda Norden, Catherine Opie, Clifford Owens, Ann Philbin, Lisa Phillips, Pope.
And yet, as an art critic, I have to admit, from Rashid Johnson’s vexing yellow sculpture that looks like a prison and a butter factory to Adrián Villar Rojas’s cast cement modern Mayan “ruins” on the High Line to Kara Walker’s magnificent sphinx from last summer to that sweet Deborah Kass sculpture (both commissioned by the Brooklyn megadeveloper Two Trees), this semi-privatization of public space has produced some of the best public art the city has seen in decades — in fact, it may even have cracked the seemingly impossible task of staging good public art.
There are the physically powerful, otherwise bland, almost-monochromes of Rashid Johnson.
Rashid Johnson’s mirrored assemblages have luscious physicality but are marred by their reliance on familiar mementos drawn from the recent past.
