Or a show centered around Marsden Hartley, who in the teens arrived at his own homoerotic visionary cubism.
We’re also treated to a funny bunny and a strong group of Marsden Hartley–like flower paintings.
Burchfield, who like Hopper painted as if cubism never happened, is van Gogh by way of Caspar David Friedrich, Marsden Hartley, John Marin, calendar art, and Sunday painting.
To name just a few: Elie Nadelman’sTango (1919); a beautiful gathering of the proto-Pop paintings of Gerald Murphy; Marsden Hartley’s visionary portrait of the young Abraham Lincoln; Joseph Stella’s stunning mosaic of high color and exuberance, Battle of Lights, Coney Island, Mardi Gras (1913–14); and Henry Ossawa Tanner’s The Good Shepherd (1902–3), a moonlit landscape composed of weightless massings of delicate lines.
To this day, most permanent collections exclude geniuses like Bill Traylor, Adolf Wölfli, Martin Ramírez, Henry Darger, to say nothing of Gee’s Bend quilts, Hilma Af Klint, Emma Kunz, Marsden Hartley, Louis Eilshemius, George Ohr, James Castle, Forrest Bess, Jess, Jay DeFeo, Ray Johnson, Jim Nutt, Asger Jorn, Beauford Delaney, Bob Thompson, Robert Colescott, Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Paula Rego, and H.C. Westermann.
A startlingly abstract image of geometrically divided stars within faceted, colored circles instantly suggests the visionary greatness of my all-time favorite American 20th-century painter, Marsden Hartley.
Meanwhile, back at “Trigger,” Leidy Churchman’s hot-pink New Dawn Marsden Hartley Soutine combines Marsden Hartley’s brawny 1940 masterpiece Madawaska—Acadian Light-Heavy and Soutine’s flaming color.
For my money, these two are among the five best American painters in history, along with Marsden Hartley, Bill Traylor, and Kara Walker.
Marsden Hartley called his “cosmic Cubism”.
And while MoMA rightfully gives Cézanne pride of place in beginning its story, here pride of place goes to side-by-side paintings by Marsden Hartley.
Almost every Bosch, Cézanne, Matisse, Alice Neel, Bill Traylor, Martín Ramírez, and Marsden Hartley that I’ve ever seen can flash like lightning at will.
), Marsden Hartley and Nova Scotia (1987)About what inspired the late paintings.
Across the way are four canvases by my favorite twentieth-century American painter, Marsden Hartley.
Regular guests included figures from the country’s first avant-garde, artists and writers like Marcel Duchamp, Man Ray, Marsden Hartley, Carl Van Vechten, Gaston Lachaise, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pavel Tchelitchew, Virgil Thomson, and many others.
I sighed aloud at an intense, awkward 1942 masterpiece by Marsden Hartley that hasn’t been on view since MoMA was rebuilt.
Photo: The Museum of Modern Art/Licensed by Scala/Art Resource, NY Marsden Hartley Evening Storm, Schoodic, Maine No.
Or a show centered around Marsden Hartley, who in the teens arrived at his own homoerotic visionary Cubism.
