Among them was the most recognized person in the show, MacArthur winner Nicole Eisenman, whose outdoor sculpture has received more praise than any other work in the biennial.
Happily, older artists like Diane Simpson, 84; Nicole Eisenman, 54; Simone Leigh, 52; and Wangechi Mutu, 46 — all makers of powerful, almost ancient or ritualistic figurative forms fashioned from clay, wood, straw, and other materials — are given pride of place and preside over the show like elders.
Along with a handful of other artists (notably Nicole Eisenman, Katherine Bernhardt, Judith Linhares, and Amy Sillman), she is a progenitor of a kind of abstract-imaginative figuration, keyed-up color, and looser gesture that is now widespread.
It’s impossible when looking at his work not to sometimes think of modern artists like Cocteau, Picasso, and Kandinsky, as well as contemporary artists like Chris Ofili, Peter Doig, Chris Martin, Nicole Eisenman, even Mary Heilmann.
The list of artists influenced by this incredible work includes Nicole Eisenman, Amy Sillman, Albert Oehlen, Carroll Dunham, Elizabeth Murray, and Georg Baselitz, who saw as early as 1959 that Guston was involved with “a distortion of the abstract … full of concrete forms”.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Yesterday I woke up, read the list, and, when I saw the name of 50-year-old New York artist Nicole Eisenman (in addition to the excellent LaToya Ruby Frazier), I was over the moon.
Whatever else she did, Schutz — along with Nicole Eisenman — was among the first women of late to cross these invisible lines.
Looking around at the statements made by what has been hung, Laura Owens, Nicole Eisenman, Michael Williams, Michaela Eichwald, Kerstin Bratsch, and Joe Bradley all impress.
Nicole Eisenman's Big Head Leo Koenig Instead of being some Greek colossus or noble Roman god, Eisenman’s big plaster head feels surreal, scul.
Nicole Eisenman's Big Head Leo Koenig Instead of being some Greek colossus or noble Roman god, Eisenman’s big plaster head feels surreal, sculptural, and strange in ways that keep us on edge.
Photo: ” Thom Andersen/Courtesy of the Artist and the Whitney Museum of American Art Untitled (2011), by Nicole Eisenman.
From left, Nicole Eisenman, Janine Antoni, Tauba Auerbach, Sarah Morris, Justine Kurland, Roni Horn, and Sylvia Sleigh.
