These days young artists like Kai Althoff, John Bock, Terence Koh, and Dana Schutz are also using expressionistic modes to new effect.
Here you’ll learn that in her studio Dana Schutz listens to right-wing radio all night long to get herself “pissed off,” that Gregory Amenoff once hurled an ax at the wall in frustration and that he paints between two huge old speakers (rock on, Gregory), and that Matthew Ritchie, who observes that “monkeys can paint too,” thinks that “graduate schools are a sham and should be abolished straight away”.
The ghost of Dana Schutz’s recent work hovers over this exhibition.
Nevertheless, I think artists like Dana Schutz, Matthew Ritchie, Katharina Grosse, and Chris Ofilli, among others, are making use of this bridge, even if none of them profess a specific interest in Murray.
This survey within a show contains excellent artists, including Dana Schutz, Mika Rottenberg, Laleh Khorramian, Jamie Isenstein, Guy Ben-ner (who will represent Israel in this summer’s Venice Biennale), and Banks Violette (who looks as good here as he ever has.
These new paintings don’t resemble but do have some of the wildness of Guston’s one-eyed beasts, and also share territory with Dana Schutz and Chris Ofili—both of whom count Fox, 41, as an inspiration.
) for weirder, more visionary ones like Verne Dawson, Ricci Albenda, Dana Schutz, Trisha Donnelly, Anna Gaskell, Lisa Ruyter, Robert Melee, Benjamin Butler, Jonathan Horowitz, Guy Richards Smit, Steve DiBenedetto, Jon Kessler and Paul Chan, or (even though I’m not a fan of all of them) Pierre Huyghe, Takashi Murakami, William Kentridge, Rudolf Stingel, Urs Fisher, Jim Lambie, Vanessa Beecroft, Douglas Gordon, Ugo Rondinoni and Francis Alÿs—all of whom live part-time in the United States.
Elsewhere, painters like Dana Schutz and Jules de Balincourt, who owe much to thrift-store and folk art, are sifting through diverse, often devalued aesthetic currencies, and coming up with fresh results.
Simultaneously clumsy and beautiful, the painting is Guston by way of Verne Dawson, Chris Johanson, Dana Schutz, and Monty Python.
In her too-controlling but still dear press release, Dana Schutz, 26, writes that for her first solo exhibition she’s painted a “fictional man from observation”.
Bernhardt—along with Donegan; Jutta Koether; L.A. painter Mari Eastman; the blunter rookie, Karen Heagle, whose capable debut is currently up at 31 Grand in Williamsburg; Dana Schutz, whose loosey-goosey paintings looked enchanting at P.S.1 last month; and Tracy Nakayama, maker of cute nudie watercolors—may be updating the idea of the prodigious male ’80s painter.
It was signed by artist Hanna Black (instrumental in the fight over Dana Schutz’s painting in the last biennial), and brilliant writers Ciaran Finlayson and Tobi Haslett (who authored the text for the U.S. Pavilion of the current Venice Biennale).
In her new work, artist Dana Schutz takes back her painterly name.
With artists like Dona Nelson, Jessica Jackson-Hutchins, Cecily Brown, Amy Sillman, Charline von Heyl, Jackie Saccoccio, and Dana Schutz, Bernhardt shattered one of the last taboos of women’s art: to paint messy, expressionistic, garish things.
The 40-year-old wunder-painter Dana Schutz — who launched a hundred careers with her own wild work but who, since her exuberant emergence in 2002, proved too untamed for all other Biennial curators — here unleashes three unspeakably vibrant new works which really up her painterly game.
Dana Schutz and Katherine Bernhardt are among the liveliest American painters to emerge in this country in 15 years, and both opened big new shows over two nights a few weeks ago.
Dana Schutz writes of her portrait of her husband with a pouty mouth and a prominent clump of blond underarm hair, “I think he is pretty sexy”.
The show, at the Neuberger Museum of Art in Purchase, N.Y., proves that like all outstanding artists, Dana Schutz probably has an extra wrinkle in her frontal lobe.
These days young artists like Kai Althoff, John Bock, Terence Koh and Dana Schutz are also using expressionistic modes to new effect.
Here you'll learn that in her studio Dana Schutz listens to right-wing radio all night long to get herself "pissed off," that Gregory Amenoff once hurled an ax at the wall in frustration and that he paints between two huge old speakers (rock on, Gregory), and that Matthew Ritchie, who observes that "monkeys can paint too," thinks that "graduate schools are a sham and should be abolished straight away".
Nevertheless, I think artists like Dana Schutz, Matthew Ritchie, Katharina Grosse and Chris Ofilli, among others, are making use of this bridge, even if none of them profess a specific interest in Murray.
