Especially impressive are Sturtevant’s room of art that looks like Duchamp’s work but throws representation out the window; Dorothy Iannone’s video of herself climaxing (as she says, “The one fleeting moment when you can see the soul as it passes over the face”); Billy Sullivan’s heartrending Nan Goldin–like slide show depicting an afternoon in a life and a whole life simultaneously; Robert Gober’s journey into hatred; Angela Strassheim’s penetrating photographs of people who are living more for the next life than this one; Jonathan Horowitz’s 19 portraits of the 9-11 hijackers placed surreptitiously throughout the museum; photos by Florian Maier-Aichen, Zoe Strauss, and Anne Collier; Trisha Donnelly’s blasting sound piece.
Essentially, Schneider created a walk-in Brothers Grimm tale laced with traces of Kurt Schwitters’s Merzbau, Beuys’s spiritualism, Nauman’s panic rooms, Gordon Matta-Clark’s aggressive architecture, Edward Kienholz’s surreal tableaux, Robert Gober, Rachel Whiteread, and something unmistakably German.
In Venice, Robert Gober’s installation in the American pavilion, with its glowing, redemptive light shining through cracks in a cellar storm door, takes on new relevance.
Continuing the simplemindedness, in “Innocence and Experience,” Robert Gober’s peculiar three-sided playpen is short-circuited and rendered one-dimensional next to Mona Hatoum’s glass crib.
The fetishism, infantilism, mannequins, and set-up photography connect Bartlett to a lot of artists: Henry Darger, Hans Bellmer, Degas, Robert Gober, Charles Ray, Jake & Dinos Chapman, Sally Mann, Jock Sturges, Simmons, and Sherman.
Usual suspects like Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, and Francesco Clemente, in other words, share space with usual-unusual suspects like Ilya Kabakov, Jimmie Durham, Adrian Piper, and Krzysztof Wodiczko.
In contrast to Sze’s unpredictability, or the three pieces by Robert Gober that show this supremely strange artist going in stranger directions still, E.V. Day’s exploded dress in the lobby is a one-liner.
From the abject installations of Karen Kilimnik and Mike Kelley, to the realistic paintings and sculptures of Eric Fischl, Amy Adler, Jim Shaw, and Robert Gober, to the diaristic photographs of Wolfgang Tillmans, Nan Goldin, and Richard Billingham, artists have contemplated their origins, the subcultures of youth, and coming-of-age.
As with Jasper Johns or Robert Gober, Doig is very workmanlike.
At Matthew Marks, Robert Gober has brought together five artists of wildly divergent styles and generations—playing them off each other brilliantly, on levels both formal and symbolic—to make what is, in essence, a Gober by other means.
Now I see Barney as a mystic bridge between the ambition, absurdity, first-person identity politics, and pseudo-autobiographical Arabian Nights fiction of 1980s artists like Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, Anselm Kiefer, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Martin Kippenberger and the populism, love of beauty, craft, dexterity with scales large and small, unusual materials, and grand activism of 1990s artists like Kara Walker, Pipilotti Rist, Olafur Eliasson, Thomas Hirschhorn, later Robert Gober, and even Richard Serra — who actually appeared in one of Barney’s films.
” Insist they did: Robert Gober’s handmade newspapers with headlines about the gay “threat” to marriage; the graffitilike scrawl on Pat Ward Williams’s mural of five young black men asking viewers “What You Lookn At”; and Pepón Osorio’s installation of a cramped Latino home featuring a corpse covered with a bloody sheet — The Scene of the Crime (Whose Crime?
The year began with holdovers of the stellar “Matisse Paper Cut Outs” and Robert Gober retrospectives from late 2014 and, later, in the garden, we saw Pierre Huyghe’s incredible contemporary sculpture of a classical nude with an enormous living beehive on her head.
In addition, the two have published books with artists, organized good shows with Richard Prince and Robert Gober, funded productions, helped artists, and all the rest.
MoMA may be troubled, but it is having a golden year, with three fantastic concurrent shows (Matisse’s “Cut-Outs,” Robert Gober, and the Sturtevant exhibitions) doing exactly what temporary shows at an institution like MoMA should do.
“Robert Gober: The Heart Is Not a Metaphor” at MoMAMoMA went all out giving this melancholy master of modern sculpture almost the entire second floor and the atrium to present his Proustian probings of endless internal amplitude.
) Spellman’s East Village space, opened in 1986, was where Christopher Wool showed his epic Apocalypse Now painting, in an exhibition co-curated by Wool, for Spellman, with a young artist named Robert Gober who’d been showing at the role model for all things Spellman — and maybe all things good in the art world — Paula Cooper.
Compared to good art, “great art is much harder to talk about,” the sculptor Charles Ray has said, speaking of the phantasmagoric work of Robert Gober, the subject of a 40-year retrospective survey at MoMA, called “The Heart Is Not a Metaphor”.
In it, he admits, “I don’t understand Robert Gober’s work”.
Robert Gober, Bill Viola, and Wilson have each represented the United States in the Venice Biennale.
In fact it turned out to be the most prescient biennial of the last two decades, introducing novel genres of artistic agency and showcasing emergent artists like Matthew Barney, Glenn Ligon, Janine Antoni, Charles Ray, Robert Gober, Charles Atlas, Mike Kelley, and Andrea Fraser.
While the curators were visiting the artist Robert Gober to discuss the show, Gober—who last season curated the exceptional Charles Burchfield exhibition at the Whitney—mentioned that he was working on a project about the little-known mid-century American visionary painter Forrest Bess.
Carroll Dunham worked for Dorothea Rockburne Barnaby Furnas worked for Carroll Dunham Christopher Wool worked for Joel Shapiro Josh Smith worked for Christopher Wool Annette Lemieux worked for David Salle Jacob Kassay worked for Josh Smith Jackie Saccoccio worked for Christopher Wool Alexander Ross worked for Julian Lethbridge Sarah Morris worked for Jeff Koons Jennifer Rubell worked for Koons Tony Matelli worked for Koons Carl Fudge worked for David Reed Matthew Weinstein worked for Ross Bleckner Darren Bader worked for Urs Fischer Robb Pruitt worked for Richard Artschwager Daphne Fitzpatrick worked for Robert Gober Robert Gober worked for Jennifer Bartlett Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober Margaret Lee worked for Cindy Sherman Rirkrit Tiravanija worked for Gretchen Bender Udomsak Krisanamis worked for Rirkrit Tiravanija Brice Marden worked for Robert Rauschenberg Dorothea Rockburne worked for Robert Rauschenberg Matt Magee worked for Robert Rauschenberg Elizabeth Peyton worked for Ronald Jones Haroon Mirza worked for Jeremy Deller Matt Keegan worked for Elizabeth Peyton Gabriel Orozco worked for Antony Gormley Alexis Rockman worked for Ross Bleckner Mark Handforth worked for Martin Kippenberg Jutta Koether worked for Martin Kippenberger Susan Jennings worked for Cindy Sherman Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter Ronnie Cutrone worked for Andy Warhol George Condo worked for Andy Warhol Elyn Zimmerman worked for James Turrell.
) The third-floor Charles Burchfield survey, brilliantly curated by artist Robert Gober, places an important forgotten American artist in center aesthetic court, and assures us that he won’t be absent for some time.
If only the museum would have either curated the collection itself or gotten someone else to do it … (Right now at the UCLA Hammer Museum, artist Robert Gober has organized a show of visionary painter Charles Burchfield which is fantastic and totally untainted.
In fact it turned out to be the most prescient biennial of the last two decades, introducing novel genres of artistic agency and showcasing emergent artists like Matthew Barney, Glenn Ligon, Janine Antoni, Charles Ray, Robert Gober, Charles Atlas, Mike Kelley and Andrea Fraser.
While the curators were visiting the artist Robert Gober to discuss the show, Gober -- who last season curated the exceptional Charles Burchfield exhibition at the Whitney -- mentioned that he was working on a project about the little-known mid-century American visionary painter Forrest Bess.
For his exhibition at Dia, Robert Gober created a room with a painted forest mural, sinks, old newspapers featuring images of himself in a wedding gown and boxes of rat poison.
