The Elizabeth Murray survey was terrific.
Rather than use Elizabeth Murray’s ravishing retrospective to trace her painterly progress, let’s ask why—as admired as she is, and even though her paintings are like wall-bound fish-eyed Richard Serras—Murray, 65, isn’t more widely recognized as one of the best American painters since 1960.
Three or four highly regarded, mid-career artists—individuals who would attend meetings and not be afraid to speak their minds—should join Chuck Close on the board (I nominate Elizabeth Murray).
Her animated, painterly touch suggests Guston’s late paintings, and what Malcolm Morely, Peter Saul, Elizabeth Murray, Carroll Dunham, and Chris Ofili do when they’re on.
There’s not a single canvas by Julian Schnabel, David Salle, Elizabeth Murray, Eric Fischl, Terry Winters, Joan Snyder, Lari Pittman, Carroll Dunham, Peter Halley, or Philip Taaffe.
In New York magazine, Kay Larson wrote that Bartlett was “one of the two strongest painters of the post-minimal generation” (the other was Elizabeth Murray).
The list of artists influenced by this incredible work includes Nicole Eisenman, Amy Sillman, Albert Oehlen, Carroll Dunham, Elizabeth Murray, and Georg Baselitz, who saw as early as 1959 that Guston was involved with “a distortion of the abstract … full of concrete forms”.
Her shattered, multicolored, disjunctive compositional fields are rivaled only by elders like Peter Saul, Elizabeth Murray, David Salle, Jörg Immendorf, and James Rosenquist.
The late painter Elizabeth Murray rightly observed, “Seeing historically belongs to the guys … The greatest part about being a woman … is that I’m not really a part of [that art history].
) In 1995, Elizabeth Murray installed a show of only women that made it obvious how much good work by women is always in storage.
The survey of Elizabeth Murray in 2005 was unevenly reviewed but a promising sign.
Elizabeth Murray, who died on August 12, was among her generation’s leading painterly lights.
Storr is a well-known supporter of such artists as Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Sol LeWitt, Susan Rothenberg, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo, and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, and Nancy Spero, every one of whom is in his show.
The late painter Elizabeth Murray rightly observed, “Seeing historically belongs to the guys .
Cooper goes on to champion the work of a generation of notables including Jonathan Borofsky, Jennifer Bartlett, Elizabeth Murray, Joel Shapiro and Alan Shields.
Soon thereafter, Pace takes on Elizabeth Murray and Kiki Smith.
Storr is a well-known supporter of artists like Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Susan Rothenberg, Sol LeWitt, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, Kim Jones and Nancy Spero, all of whom are in his show.
Rather than use Elizabeth Murray's ravishing retrospective to trace her painterly progress, let's ask why -- as admired as she is, and even though her paintings are like wall-bound fish-eyed Richard Serras -- Murray, 65, isn't more widely recognized as one of the best American painters since 1960.
