You begin to get that she is nervily trying to combine the verve of Mitchell, the analytic painting-is-part-of-the-world conceptualism of Sol LeWitt, and the hardcore graphicness of Christopher Wool.
There’s also the corner with Mary Kelly’s pregnant belly as a Sol LeWitt–like grid with implications of the birth canal delivered via Nauman’s nearby narrow-corridor video; and the abject-meets-the-Apollonian alcove of Louise Bourgeois, Sue Williams, Carroll Dunham, and Paul McCarthy.
The installation consists of several stately oversize handmade stuffed animals, a number of handsome but generic-looking quilted-and-sewed paintings, three grandly built Sol LeWitt–like towers, and two mini hamburger stands among still more bric-a-brac.
As Sol LeWitt generated drawings via language, Kelley has created a remarkable machine that generates art from yearbooks.
In the handy pamphlet accompanying the show, Durant says he wants to “move monuments commemorating lives lost during the Indian Wars to the National Mall in Washington, D.C.” This idea is pointed without being preachy, heartrending but not mawkish, and politically incisive if stylistically indebted to artists like Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread, Lothar Baumgarten, Stephen Prina, Allan McCollum, and Sol LeWitt.
This ties her to such seemingly unrelated artists as Sol LeWitt, Jackie Windsor, Barry Le Va, and Matthew Ritchie—four other systematizers who, despite seeming on top of everything, allow their art to take them in unexpected directions.
Better were the Barbara Kruger, Sol LeWitt, and Alice Neel shows.
As with post-minimalists and conceptualists like Dorothea Rockburne, Mel Bochner, Barry Le Va, and Sol LeWitt, Siena, 46, contrives rules and follows them.
Stylistically, Lombardi owes much to conceptualists like Mel Bochner and Sol LeWitt.
This lineage includes Duchamp, Michael Asher, Vito Acconci, James Turrell, and Sol LeWitt.
Most of the best moments in this retrospective come with the “Wall Drawings,” without which, I suspect, there’d be no Sol LeWitt, darling of institutions, and no 150 shows.
In 1967, Sol LeWitt said he wanted the idea to become “a machine that makes art”.
Scientific, funny, exquisite, and strange, it’s like a Sol LeWitt by way of a little boy plucking the legs off an arachnid.
Plus, this kind of theoretical/phenomenological space has been mapped by artists such as Mel Bochner (a teacher of Barbeito’s), Will Insley, Sol LeWitt, and Alfred Jensen, not to mention a slew of scientists.
Rhapsody is dumb but never dry; there’s a lot of Sol LeWitt and Dorothea Rockburne in it, but it isn’t logical—it’s wild, out of control, it has personality, subjectivity, and feeling.
Sol LeWitt invented instructions for other people to draw his art on walls.
What makes this sale totally bogus is not only that the poster looks like a lousy 1950s Larry Rivers painting, or that as far back as the 1970s Sol LeWitt was generating written instructions that others used to make his art, or that the process used here is a standard art student and computer-programmer exercise — it’s that these algorithmic programs and codes have been in use for a very long time to make the exact same looking things.
There are grids of numbers that look like later-day, homemade versions of post-minimalists, like Mel Bochner and Sol LeWitt; signs in the shape of the thing they’re selling, like a mug of beer, commercial versions of shaped paintings; unaltered manufactured cigarette ads that may have been of interest to Grotjahn for being round (he seems drawn to a lot of circles), or for the ad hoc way they’re installed, for example, by a pushpin; or maybe it’s the shiny, cricked surface.
As conceptualist Sol LeWitt put it, “The idea becomes the machine that makes the art”.
) Another video finds Baldessari singing in his flat voice, to melodies like “Yankee Doodle,” using the artist Sol LeWitt’s manifesto “Sentences on Conceptual Art” for lyrics.
But his work consistently reminded me of one of Sol LeWitt’s brilliant “Sentences on Conceptual Art”: “When the artist learns his craft too well, he makes slick art”.
Storr is a well-known supporter of such artists as Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Sol LeWitt, Susan Rothenberg, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo, and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, and Nancy Spero, every one of whom is in his show.
Like a haunted Sol LeWitt, Kelley excelled at inventing systems and finding artistic syntaxes to create his work.
His spot paintings are spiffy riffs on Sol LeWitt’s ‘60s formula: authorless paintings that can be made by anyone.
Storr is a well-known supporter of artists like Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Susan Rothenberg, Sol LeWitt, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, Kim Jones and Nancy Spero, all of whom are in his show.
In the handy pamphlet accompanying the show, Durant says he wants to "move monuments commemorating lives lost during the Indian Wars to the National Mall in Washington, D.C." This idea is pointed without being preachy, heartrending but not mawkish, and politically incisive if stylistically indebted to artists like Sherrie Levine, Rachel Whiteread, Lothar Baumgarten, Stephen Prina, Allan McCollum and Sol LeWitt.
