Other standouts included Dasha Shishkin, Jackie Saccoccio, Seth Price, Thomas Hirschhorn, Marilyn Minter, Josiah McElheny, Cheney Thompson, Wade Guyton, Aaron Young, Harrell Fletcher, Mark Grotjahn, and perhaps best of all, the exhibition by the living lord of chaos, Sigmar Polke.
One sleeper still on view is Jackie Saccoccio’s uneven, retinal thought storm of an exhibition, which brings to mind baroque ceiling swirls, floral patterns painted on Japanese vases, and iced fog, and has what Georges Bataille called an “unstoppable repugnant voracity”.
More recently there’s been Sue Williams, Cecily Brown, Jackie Saccoccio, and Katharina Grosse (whose wild spray-painted room-paintings would have lit up the current Whitney Biennial.
With artists like Dona Nelson, Jessica Jackson-Hutchins, Cecily Brown, Amy Sillman, Charline von Heyl, Jackie Saccoccio, and Dana Schutz, Bernhardt shattered one of the last taboos of women’s art: to paint messy, expressionistic, garish things.
Jackie Saccoccio at 11RJackie Saccoccio’s double painting show of large dripped, brushed, slushed, and sluiced canvases of almost-undersea phosphorescent color showed how far out in front of the painterly curve this artist has been for more than a decade.
Jackie Saccoccio: “Degree of Tilt”11 RivingtonThrough Oct.
As painter Jackie Saccoccio wrote to me, it “has equal amounts of flippant casualness, astute observation, utter devotion to material, and the alchemical stuff that happens in his photos”.
I think his first solo show in New York in eight years is really convincing, even if it often flirts with all-out kitsch, Tim Burton more than Richard Wagner, and what artist Jackie Saccoccio has called “Alice in Wonder-hell,” not to mention referencing questionable artists like Antoni Tapies and Miguel Barcelo.
As artist Jackie Saccoccio remarked, “Like a lot of things these days, it was more about the funders than the thing funded”.
I think his first solo show in New York in eight years is really convincing, even if it often flirts with all-out kitsch, Tim Burton more than Richard Wagner, and what artist Jackie Saccoccio has called "Alice in Wonder-hell," not to mention referencing questionable artists like Antoni Tapies and Miquel Barcelo.
Jackie Saccoccio, "In Transparency," Nov.
More recently there's been Sue Williams, Cecily Brown, Jackie Saccoccio and Katharina Grosse (whose wild spray-painted room-paintings would have lit up the current Whitney Biennial.
