Regardless, other precedents in Western art for this type of image include Mapplethorpe’s photograph of him putting a bullwhip up his ass, Peter Saul’s depiction of Clement Greenberg inserting a paintbrush into his vagina, Tom of Finland, Hieronymus Bosch, Dali who wrote about “monstrous excrescences…and a delirium of auto-strangulation,” possibly Otto Dix, and Picasso’s great way of painting Marie-Therese’s anus.
Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius, or Jim Nutt—none of whom are included—would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
There are streaks of Elmer Bischoff’s creamy paint and warm color and Peter Saul’s wildness.
Europeans like Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Blinky Palermo, and Bernd and Hilla Becher would hang with Claes Oldenburg, Diane Arbus, Richard Avedon, and Peter Saul.
Oldsters like Peter Saul, Jim Nutt, and John Wesley have manipulated the figure for years; and younger artists like Lisa Yuskavage, Kara Walker, Karen Kilimnik, and Trenton Doyle Hancock must think they’re illustrating something.
Her animated, painterly touch suggests Guston’s late paintings, and what Malcolm Morely, Peter Saul, Elizabeth Murray, Carroll Dunham, and Chris Ofili do when they’re on.
As for his peers, Golub’s pared-down political realism acts as the third leg of an intriguing, against-the-grain, generational tripod formed by Alex Katz’s reductive, apolitical, representational paintings and Peter Saul’s twisted political figuration.
His patchwork composition portends artists like Rauschenberg, Polke, and Basquiat, while his intoxicated, comic book style and sexual imaginings predict everyone from Peter Saul and Jim Shaw to Amy Sillman and Carroll Dunham.
A lifetime member of this confederacy, and a founder of funk, is Peter Saul, who—after living in Austin, Texas, for the last 20 years—moved to New York last month.
His art is an amalgam of the perversity and antimodernism of Balthus, the hermeticism of Jasper Johns and Salle, the brazenness of Mel Ramos and Peter Saul, and the old-masterish figuration of late André Derain.
These are the paintings that come closest to Peter Saul, Kenny Scharf, or Chicago Imagists like Carl Wirsum, Barbara Rossi, and Jim Nutt.
His work here, which looks like a game board designed by Peter Saul and Kara Walker, teems with figures, patterns, and twisted, racially tinged narratives.
Although, just months before the coming of COVID-19, the great painter Peter Saul seemed to glean something in the tea leaves, saying: “There are just too many artists.
Let the New Museum post videos of its wild Peter Saul show.
At the beautiful uptown ADAA show a jarring standout is the great hell-raising storm-bird proto-Pop genius Peter Saul and two wildly colored Day-Glo abstract-figurative quasi-portraits — Abstract Expressionist Portrait of Donald Trump and The Little Guy Gets Angry — which the artist says is a portrait of “a Trump voter”.
Peter Saul; Fake News Mary Boone 541 W. 24th Street / through October 28Thank God for Peter Saul, old-school 83-year old master blaster of wild color, free-riding political marauding, insanely twisting composition.
Her shattered, multicolored, disjunctive compositional fields are rivaled only by elders like Peter Saul, Elizabeth Murray, David Salle, Jörg Immendorf, and James Rosenquist.
In this show, Williams is evincing his familiar influences and visual kin, artists like Guston, Bonnard, Vuillard, Peter Saul, and R. Crumb, plus some Chicago Imagism and California funk.
That’s why you never see artists like Vito Acconci, Adrian Piper, and Peter Saul on these lists.
I am thinking of Paul McCarthy’s excremental installations, Peter Saul’s twisted painted figures penetrating one another, Kara Walker’s race wars of sex and violence, and the Nazis in hell of Jake and Dinos Chapman, art that almost seems too much to take or even to look at, that resists aesthetic metabolism, that exudes a sort of poetics of apotheosis.
There are excellent paintings on hand, notably Peter Saul’s heaving depiction of a Vietnamese woman being raped by American soldiers, Lynda Benglis’s latex floor splat, and Jimi Hendrix’s Sigmar Polke–like abstraction.
That’s why you never see artists like Vito Acconci, Adrian Piper and Peter Saul on these lists.
Diane Arbus, Maya Deren, Henry Darger, Peter Saul, H.C. Westermann, Rube Goldberg, Ivan Albright, Ed Paschke, William Copley, Louis Eilshemius or Jim Nutt -- none of whom are included -- would have shown the schizophrenia and pleasure in this separateness.
