Surveying the new super-expanded mega-digs of David Zwirner, I wondered, “How big can Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch paint?
Unlike Luc Tuymans, who at 50 is the same age as Sillman and has graced the covers of numerous art magazines, Sillman doesn’t explore the convergence of painting and photography.
Luc Tuymans’s work can be romantic and repetitious; his enthrallment with hot-button subjects can make him seem opportunistic; some of his latest paintings lack ambiguity.
Among other examples, it cited an Elizabeth Peyton painting that “only” sold for $300,000 while John Currin and Luc Tuymans fetched more than a million.
In fact, a number of his painterly peers— Elizabeth Peyton, Peter Doig, Takashi Murakami, Luc Tuymans, Laura Owens, and Matthew Ritchie, among them—have influenced other artists more with their individual styles.
Compared to someone like Luc Tuymans, also 47, whose moody new paintings are on view at David Zwirner, and who is always showing you he knows what he’s doing and doing it extremely well, Sillman is more eccentric and erratic.
Nevertheless, no matter how prevalent, relevant, or worthy it is, painting isn’t welcome at the Documentas of the world (unless, of course, it’s made by Luc Tuymans).
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Indeed, Luc Tuymans’s wan-looking paintings initially struck many as only flat-footed illustration.
Neither Schutz nor Bernhardt employs photographic tools, digital approaches, or outright appropriation in her work, in the manners of Peter Doig, Wilhelm Sasnal, and Luc Tuymans.
(Luc Tuymans recently gave a talk at Vienna’s tremendous Kunsthistorisches Museum about paintings in its collection that fail.
Surveying the new super-expanded mega-digs of David Zwirner, I wondered, "How big can Luc Tuymans and Neo Rauch paint"?
Unlike Luc Tuymans, who at 50 is the same age as Sillman and has graced the covers of numerous art magazines, Sillman doesn't explore the convergence of painting and photography.
Among other examples, it cited an Elizabeth Peyton painting that "only" sold for $300,000 while John Currin and Luc Tuymans fetched more than a million.
