DandyOne of the current ringleaders in the irony department is Michael Krebber, the Cologne-born and-based 52-year-old who studied with German neo-expressionist artist-as-dandy Marcus Lupertz and who was an assistant to both Georg Baselitz and to that super-imp of the perverse, the late Martin Kippenberger.
One of the current ringleaders in the irony department is Michael Krebber, the Cologne-born and-based 52-year-old who studied with German neo-expressionist artist-as-dandy Marcus Lupertz and who was an assistant to both Georg Baselitz and to that super-imp of the perverse, the late Martin Kippenberger.
Brown paints in a manner best described as latter-day, second-generation abstract expressionist by way of Georg Baselitz and Susan Rothenberg.
for Ed Ruscha, who collects art from L.A. A similar shout-out for Georg Baselitz, who introduces us to his own find: Carl Fredrik Hill (1849–1911), whose intense, romantic crayon-on-paper landscapes have a touch of the Baselitz about them.
Unafraid to crawl inside the skins of masters like Vuillard, Baselitz, Guston, and Van Gogh, Chaves gives us flowers up close; juicy sluices of paint that form a clock; Khalif, a gorgeous Bernard Buffet–meets–Egon Schiele portrait of a nude black man reclining before what looks like a Bavarian townscape; and finally, a broken-up figure that instantly conjures Georg Baselitz’s early-1960s mold-breaking Hero paintings of fallen German figures.
The list of artists influenced by this incredible work includes Nicole Eisenman, Amy Sillman, Albert Oehlen, Carroll Dunham, Elizabeth Murray, and Georg Baselitz, who saw as early as 1959 that Guston was involved with “a distortion of the abstract … full of concrete forms”.
The rough allover composition isn’t looking back cozily at Impressionism; these paintings are pointed deep into the future, directly at artists like Joan Mitchell, Jackson Pollock, and Georg Baselitz.
Georg Baselitz’s Frankensteinian figure is a perfect stand-in for what it must have felt like to be a German artist at the time.
One of the current ringleaders in the irony department is Michael Krebber, the Cologne-born and-based 52-year-old who studied with German Neo-Expressionist artist-as-dandy Marcus Lupertz and who was an assistant to both Georg Baselitz and to that super-imp of the perverse, the late Martin Kippenberger.
