Neither is Andy Warhol’s great Sticky Fingers jeans-and-zipper cover, although that album’s sexy insert of a man in his underpants is (the man, by the way, is none other than writer and former Interview editor Glenn O’Brien).
Three Sundays ago I went to the Frank Campbell Funeral Home for a beautiful closed-casket viewing of the great writer-impresario-thinker Glenn O’Brien.
And even though I didn’t make it to the music video’s final cut, that didn’t stop much of the art world from getting in a twist because I’d written about how much I loved dancing barefoot with Jay Z. To all the commenters I’d plead, “But you never complained about Glenn O’Brien doing this, though”.
Which may be why I was so thrilled last year when he emailed to ask if he could do an hour interview with me for his last TV show, Tea at the Beatrice With Glenn O’Brien.
This is the story of how we got to where we can understand what writer Glenn O’Brien meant when he wryly wrote, “I have long believed that there should be a Nuremberg Trials for architects, and now I believe that developers should be taken to task as well for sins against the landscape”.
Fellow pictures artist Laurie Simmons is here; so is his old pal, writer and former Warhol Interview editor Glenn O’Brien, who recently wrote something that applies perfectly to Prince’s new portraits: “Andy always said the best look is a good plain look.
Glenn O’Brien once called Wool’s work “sign-painting with feedback,” and that feedback goes almost infinite in my favorite Wool painting—the one that quotes words never spoken, only seen, in Apocalypse Now: SELL THE HOUSE SELL THE CAR SELL THE KIDS.
Same for Glenn O’Brien, prince of old-school cool, who only mopped his brow and chewed gum.
Overhearing this, the former Interview editor and wordsmith extraordinaire Glenn O’Brien mused that the statue’s inscription could read “Give us your rich, your glamorous, your drag queens, and drug addicts”.
As Glenn O’Brien observed about German painter Albert Oehlen, who would have added something to this show, “There’s only one right way [to do something] but [Oehlen explores] a million brilliant errors”.
