This biennial might have twinkled more had the curators switched a few of the big names for slightly less predictable big names: Mary Heilmann instead of Robert Mangold, Jim Nutt rather than David Hockney, William Eggleston instead of Jack Pierson, Lee Bontecou rather than Alex Hay, and R. Crumb and Cady Noland instead of Paul McCarthy and Richard Prince.
Hoptman means this as good thing, although artists like Serra, Brice Marden, Mary Heilmann, and Sigmar Polke would probably reject this and think their drawings are objects meant to be savored, too.
It’s impossible when looking at his work not to sometimes think of modern artists like Cocteau, Picasso, and Kandinsky, as well as contemporary artists like Chris Ofili, Peter Doig, Chris Martin, Nicole Eisenman, even Mary Heilmann.
Her ideas of pale color, thin surface, larger scale, and amorphous pictorial structure presage artists as varied as Milton Avery, Mark Rothko, Morris Louis, Hedda Sterne, Mary Heilmann, and most contemporary abstraction.
Even if you didn’t like the surveys of Elizabeth Peyton, Dorothy Iannone, and Mary Heilmann, these artists deserved shows in a New York museum, and nobody else stepped up.
Mary Heilmann, artist: I saw the show at Holly’s and remember the spots and the printed fabric and totally fell in love — abstract with hints of narrative.
Her ideas about surface, scale, and color are not only daring; they presaged the work of artists as varied as Barnett Newman, Milton Avery, Mark Rothko, Morris Louis, and Mary Heilmann, as well as Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction, and contemporary postmodern abstraction.
Best Trend: More Big Shows for WomenThe New Museum mounted strong surveys of Tomma Abts, Mary Heilmann, and Elizabeth Peyton, and MoMA opened its Marlene Dumas show—all the more impressive at a time when the cards are still odiously stacked against female artists.
Four of them—Olivier Mosset, Robert Bechtle, Mary Heilmann, and Karen Kilimnik—have been lauded for years.
In November, Mary Heilmann, who is 67 and whose work has always been respected but never A-listed, scored the covers of Artforum and Art in America simultaneously.
Even if you didn’t like the surveys of Elizabeth Peyton, Dorothy Iannone and Mary Heilmann, these artists deserved shows in a New York museum, and nobody else stepped up.
Her ideas about surface, scale and color are not only daring; they presaged the work of artists as varied as Barnett Newman, Milton Avery, Mark Rothko, Morris Louis and Mary Heilmann, as well as Color Field painting, Lyrical Abstraction and contemporary postmodern abstraction.
Four of them -- Olivier Mosset, Robert Bechtle, Mary Heilmann and Karen Kilimnik -- have been lauded for years.
