Charles Burchfield would have shown this solitude turn visionary.
Mystic Cryptic RevelationsYoung painters should look at the work of Charles Burchfield (1893–1967), the mystic, cryptic painter of transcendental landscapes, trees with telekinetic halos, and haunted houses emanating ectoplasmic auras.
Young painters should look at the work of Charles Burchfield (1893–1967), the mystic, cryptic painter of transcendental landscapes, trees with telekinetic halos, and haunted houses emanating ectoplasmic auras.
Also sadly missing are eccentrics and visionaries like Christian Schad, Florine Stettheimer, Charles Burchfield, and Martin Ramirez.
So-called real artists like Arthur Dove employ flat fields of swelling forms and furrowed fields; Charles Burchfield’s waving world is marked by a similar cosmic glow.
He’s also a little bit Chris Ofili and Verne Dawson (who should be better known) by way of visionaries Forrest Bess and Charles Burchfield.
We’ve seen this of late with revelatory exhibitions of Charles Burchfield, Forrest Bess, and a show of early Hartley.
Charles Burchfield's Untitled James Reinish & Associates Look into that mysterious thicket of trees and see space disappear, a square shape.
Charles Burchfield's Untitled James Reinish & Associates Look into that mysterious thicket of trees and see space disappear, a square shape take form, the borders of the watercolor fall away a little, and you’re in a visionary state of mind.
While the curators were visiting the artist Robert Gober to discuss the show, Gober—who last season curated the exceptional Charles Burchfield exhibition at the Whitney—mentioned that he was working on a project about the little-known mid-century American visionary painter Forrest Bess.
Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield”   Whitney Museum of American Art; curated by Robert GoberIt was a tremendous treat to rediscover the near-forgotten American visionary Burchfield, who turned ordinary things into eerie (ectoplasmic hills!
) The third-floor Charles Burchfield survey, brilliantly curated by artist Robert Gober, places an important forgotten American artist in center aesthetic court, and assures us that he won’t be absent for some time.
If only the museum would have either curated the collection itself or gotten someone else to do it … (Right now at the UCLA Hammer Museum, artist Robert Gober has organized a show of visionary painter Charles Burchfield which is fantastic and totally untainted.
While the curators were visiting the artist Robert Gober to discuss the show, Gober -- who last season curated the exceptional Charles Burchfield exhibition at the Whitney -- mentioned that he was working on a project about the little-known mid-century American visionary painter Forrest Bess.
Heat Waves in a Swamp: The Paintings of Charles Burchfield" at the Whitney Museum  of American Art  It was a tremendous treat to rediscover the near-forgotten American visionary Burchfield, who turned ordinary things into eerie (ectoplasmic hills!
Charles Burchfield: Paintings 1915-1964," Nov.
