Even so, MOMA’s narrative wouldn’t be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch, and Claude Cahun.
The three extraordinary artists—Hilma af Klint (1862–1944), Emma Kunz (1892–1963), and Agnes Martin (1912–2004)—who are the subjects of the Drawing Center show, were after something supreme but less solemn.
All of Picasso, Pollock’s giant drip paintings, and Hilma af Klint’s first forays into the deepest precincts of abstraction take my breath away.
Hilma af Klint: Paintings for the Future, by Tracey Bashkoff and Tessel M. Bauduin (Guggenheim Museum, October 23)Place this gorgeous book on top of your coffee table.
By the time you put down this book, Hilma af Klint will be embedded in your visual library forever.
The Guggenheim is making a full-barrel bid to canonize Hilma af Klint, the early-20th-century Swedish mystical abstract painter, in art history.
Hilma af Klint: Paintings for the Future opens at the Guggenheim on October 12.
My favorite abstract painting was Navajo sand painting, Oceanic art, and the newly revealed work of Swedish visionary Hilma af Klint.
Neither is Hilma af Klint, whose 16 glorious paintings from 1914–15 cover three walls here.
Hilma af Klint and Fröbe-Kapteyn might have said their work was inspired by cosmic forces.
In addition to the artists mentioned above, visionaries like Hilma af Klint, Emma Kunz, Bill Traylor, Adolf Wolfli, Martin Rameirez, Minnie Evans, John Kane, Clementine Hunter, Hector Hyppolite, and others must be integrated into the canon.
Ditto Hilma af Klint, who was making fantastically abstract paintings as early as 1906.
Or MoMA could explore the work of Hilma af Klint, the Swede who fashioned mystic-looking alchemical diagrams and who arrived at pure abstraction more than five years before the great Kasimir Malevich.
Even so, MOMA's narrative wouldn't be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch and Claude Cahun.
The three extraordinary artists -- Hilma af Klint (1862-1944), Emma Kunz (1892-1963) and Agnes Martin (1912-2004) -- who are the subjects of the Drawing Center show, were after something supreme but less solemn.
