Other standouts included Dasha Shishkin, Jackie Saccoccio, Seth Price, Thomas Hirschhorn, Marilyn Minter, Josiah McElheny, Cheney Thompson, Wade Guyton, Aaron Young, Harrell Fletcher, Mark Grotjahn, and perhaps best of all, the exhibition by the living lord of chaos, Sigmar Polke.
The sewn paintings are beautiful, although they evoke similar efforts by Sigmar Polke, Martin Kippenberger, and Rosemarie Trockel.
In actuality, this Berlin-based painter crosses the readymades of Duchamp with the rougher alchemists like Sigmar Polke, Rosemarie Trockel, and Michael Krebber.
Hoptman means this as good thing, although artists like Serra, Brice Marden, Mary Heilmann, and Sigmar Polke would probably reject this and think their drawings are objects meant to be savored, too.
Her hand is also freer: Her technique is so unrestrained she might seem to share traits with mega-renegade Sigmar Polke.
There are squiggles sometimes, maybe Christopher Wool–like black screen, or Sigmar Polke–like dots here and there.
Either way, these drawings have a delightful Sigmar Polke easiness of line and simplicity of funny form and dicey subject matter.
I knew I’d seen something fantastic unfolding, an artist who was probing painting’s ancient uses via abstraction, Twombly’s ideas of paint that looks like it’s been applied straight from the human body, Sigmar Polke’s belief in painting’s transformative powers, and Robert Ryman’s desire to reduce painting to its bare bones to see how far these bones can go.
But in the most successful ones Williams adds the complexities of artists like Peter Doig, Carroll Dunham, and Sigmar Polke.
Although the great late German artist Sigmar Polke, alchemical lord of painterly phantasmagoria, has often given me the feeling I was visually licking a hallucinogenic toad, Marden’s Letter exudes a kind of hypnotic retinal chloroform, making one hypersensitive to some slowed-down state of seeing and being.
I think of artists as varied as Pipilotti Rist, Lynda Benglis, Albert Oehlen, Sigmar Polke, and Laura Owens catching glimpses of the possibilities in all this.
Sigmar Polke, daring visionary lord of the alchemical phantasmagoria of painting, died this morning at 69.
A good Ofili brings to mind Funkadelic album covers, William Blake, Zimbabwe rock painting, Sigmar Polke, Brazilian bead work, Op Art, carnival posters, Celestial Seasonings packages, Haitian voodoo figures, Australian Aborigine “dot paintings,” and Post-Impressionistic pointillism.
Storr is a well-known supporter of such artists as Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Sol LeWitt, Susan Rothenberg, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo, and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, and Nancy Spero, every one of whom is in his show.
Two rooms later are the knockout quasi-abstract paintings by that old magician-artist Sigmar Polke.
The following two years see the American debuts of German giants like Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke and Anselm Kiefer.
A good Ofili brings to mind Funkadelic album covers, William Blake, Zimbabwe rock painting, Sigmar Polke, Brazilian bead work, Op Art, carnival posters, Celestial Seasonings packages, Haitian voodoo figures, Australian Aborigine "dot paintings" and Post-Impressionistic pointillism.
Storr is a well-known supporter of artists like Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Gerhard Richter, Robert Ryman, Louise Bourgeois, Ellsworth Kelly, Susan Rothenberg, Sol LeWitt, Jenny Holzer, Giovanni Anselmo and Elizabeth Murray, as well as Ilya and Emilia Kabakov, Thomas Nozkowski, Kim Jones and Nancy Spero, all of whom are in his show.
The sewn paintings are beautiful, although they evoke similar efforts by Sigmar Polke, Martin Kippenberger and Rosemarie Trockel.
In actuality, this Berlin-based painter crosses the readymades of Duchamp with the rougher alchemists like Sigmar Polke, Rosemarie Trockel and Michael Krebber.
