(Just last night, L.A. Times writer Carolina Miranda, artist William Powhida, and I tweeted Shaw “Thrift Store” images to one another for an hour.
After I tried to be on a reality-TV game show, artist William Powhida opined that for him to be on my “top ten list” was like “an anchor around my ankle”.
The show cries out for one of William Powhida’s gigantic art-world-Babylon murals, maybe downstairs in the restaurant.
William Powhida, W’Burg 2000 (2011)Pierogi, 177 North 9th Street, WilliamsburgNo one does charts and diagrams better than this long-excellen.
William Powhida, W’Burg 2000 (2011)Pierogi, 177 North 9th Street, WilliamsburgNo one does charts and diagrams better than this long-excellent Williamsburg outpost.
In the current group show, there’s our own Hogarth, William Powhida, laying out all things art world and annoying.
(Maybe we’ll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mike Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Monk, etc.
Organized by artists Jennifer Dalton and William Powhida, “#class” was open to anyone who wanted to see performances, or talk about the market, careerism, and bad critics.
) William Powhida, whose pointed cartoons of the art world were on my 2009 top-ten list, complained that being on my list was now “more like an anchor around my ankle than a life raft”.
William Powhida, artist: Polke was an iconoclast.
(Maybe we'll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mika Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Munk, etc.
Organized by artists Jennifer Dalton and William Powhida, "#class" was open to anyone who wanted to see performances, or talk about the market, careerism, and bad critics.
) William Powhida, whose pointed cartoons of the art world were on my 2009 top-ten list, complained that being on my list was now "more like an anchor around my ankle than a life raft".
