She’s drawn to the indexical vision of Edward Ruscha and the lonely 1970s cityscapes of Thomas Struth.
The Guggenheim comes alive in new ways, entropy emerges as an aesthetic quality, and the whole museum turns into a living Thomas Struth photograph.
For his latest steamy series of large-scale photographs, German photographer Thomas Struth positioned himself just to one side and slightly in back of Michelangelo’s magnificent David in the Galleria dell’Accademia in Florence.
In the way that Andreas Gursky transforms the act of looking at photographs into the experience of movies, and Thomas Struth enlarges photography to philosophical proportions, Dijkstra attempts to convert the medium that was supposed to overturn painting back into an almost painterly practice.
Thomas Ruff, Nudes noc09 2000Of the three German photographers who came to America’s attention in the late ’80s— Thomas Struth, Ruff himself, and Andreas Gursky (collectively known as Struffsky)—Ruff, 42, is the roughest.
a question might be “In 10 words or less: What’s the difference between the acclaimed German photographers—both known for their mammoth color pictures—Andreas Gursky and Thomas Struth?
Going head-to-head will be Anna Gaskell, Andreas Gursky, Thomas Struth, Adam Fuss, Uta Barth, Beat Streuli, Yasumasa Morimura, Sarah Charlesworth, John Coplans, Gregory Crewdson, Sally Mann, and Collier Schorr.
Among the many photographs, and opposite each other, are pictures of people in the Louvre by Henri Cartier-Bresson and Thomas Struth.
Artists like Andreas Gursky, Thomas Struth, and Thomas Ruff (so ubiquitous in the 1990s that I collectively called them Struffsky; I got a nasty note from one of them), and Canadians like Jeff Wall and Rodney Graham, all took photography toward movies, billboards, storytelling, history painting, and high-production values.
She is known for showing top-tier non-Americans such as Marcel Broodthaers, Anselm Kiefer, Gerhard Richter, Jeff Wall, Maurizio Cattelan, Tony Craig, Richard Deacon, Rineke Dykstra, William Kentridge, Gabriel Orozco and Thomas Struth.
She's drawn to the indexical vision of Edward Ruscha and the lonely 1970s cityscapes of Thomas Struth.
Thomas Struth photograph.
