My nominations, in order, for Living National Movie Treasure (Male) are John Waters, Kenneth Anger, and Russ Meyer.
To his credit, Melee melds the bad taste and impudence of John Waters, the messiness of Paul McCarthy, a schizzy version of early-’90s pathetic aesthetic, a lot of raunch, a touch of madness, and a dash of Eminem’s ire.
John Waters, on the other hand, asserts it’s “beyond a doubt, the best movie ever made.
The presiding celebrity was John Waters.
John Waters once used an expression, “the curse of fame”.
John Waters, same thing.
John Waters, Harmony Korine.
I don’t remember where or when, but I once read that the great artist, filmmaker, and true national treasure John Waters said of the late, equally great gallerist Colin de Land of American Fine Arts, “Colin broke the curse of fame for me”.
John Waters, Library Science #8, 2014; 2 C-prints.
John Waters, Mom and Dad, 2014; 3 C-prints.
John Waters, Beverly Hills John, 2012; C-print.
John Waters, Stalker, 2009; C-print.
John Waters, Neurotic, 2009; 4 C-prints.
John Waters, .
John Waters, Children Who Smoke, 2009; 8 C-prints.
John Waters, Time to Renew, 2006; C-print.
John Waters, Art Market Research, 2006; C-print.
John Waters, Haunted, 2006; C-print.
John Waters, In My House Series: In My Video Closet, 1998; C-print.
John Waters, Liz Taylor’s Hair and Feet, 1996; 33 C-prints.
John Waters, Chesty, 1993; C-print.
At my first stop, Koenig & Clinton, I walked in right behind living national treasure and should-be MacArthur recipient John Waters.
Coming into the art world of the seventies, she found more bad fathers: In MoMA’s excellent catalogue she speaks to John Waters about being “disgusted … with the art world … the boy artists, the boy painters”.
John Waters once called it “a curse”.
A room devoted to Russ Meyer’s nudie photographs (perhaps installed by John Waters) would be a bonkers bookend to a Warhol room.
Coming into the art world of the ‘70s, she found more bad  fathers: In MoMA’s excellent catalogue she speaks to John Waters about being  “disgusted.
