Run by Elizabeth Dee, Darren Flock, Jayne Drost, and Laura Mitterrand, along with Matthew Higgs, it’s the best of the trio, because it makes you feel that the forces of art, community, activism, and group action — along with the inevitable moneymaking instincts — are alive, well, and flourishing.
In 2009, a handful of intrepid art-worlders, including gallerist Elizabeth Dee and curator Cecilia Alemani, approached the developers, scraped together money to lease it, and reopened the building last March to house a project called the X Initiative.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Ryan Trecartin Everyone doing everything at once everywhere at once.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Ryan Trecartin Processing it all and having imagination to spare.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Ryan Trecartin A ride into cosmic dimensions of color and information.
Courtesy of the New Museum, the artist, and Elizabeth Dee, New York Jakub Julian Ziolkowski, The Great Battle Under the Table Combining Ensor, Bosh, visual beauty, and a sense of the visionary.
No one seems to know what will happen to the space next spring, but thanks to gallerist Elizabeth Dee and project overseers Cecilia Alemani and Jenny Moore, for the next twelve months you can check your Govan-hate at the door and visit X Initiative for free.
Run by Elizabeth Dee, Darren Flock, Jayne Drost and Laura Mitterrand, along with Matthew Higgs, it’s the best of the trio, because it makes you feel that the forces of art, community, activism and group action -- along with the inevitable moneymaking instincts -- are alive, well, and flourishing.
In 2009, a handful of intrepid art-worlders, including dealer Elizabeth Dee and curator Cecilia Alemani, approached the developers, scraped together money to lease it, and reopened the building last March to house a project called the X-Initiative.
No one seems to know what will happen to the space next spring, but thanks to gallerist Elizabeth Dee and project overseers Cecilia Alemani and Jenny Moore, for the next 12 months you can check your Govan-hate at the door and visit X Initiative for free.
