Whether it’s a noble cause or a survival strategy, this gallery’s stated mission is to “focus on mid-career artists who emerged in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.” Although almost every dealer shows artists who emerged during these decades, it’s nice that this gallery is going through the back catalog of recent art history to see who’s been left behind. This micro-niche is paying dividends in the current show of Cary Leibowitz, that intermittently excellent sad-sack connoisseur of all things gaudy, queer, Jewish, and beautiful.

Once upon a time in the early 1990s, Leibowitz, who then also went by the name “Candy Ass,” was a poster child of the über-popular burp variously deemed “Pathetic Aesthetic,” “Abject Art,” and “Loser Art.” Leibowitz hasn’t exactly been “left behind.” His rousing 2001 Andrew Kreps exhibition, titled “Gain! Wait! Now!,” included paintings that said “Stop copying me” and “Do these pants make me look Jewish?” Unfortunately, his follow-up show was lackadaisical and iffy. Leibowitz has always been an up-and-down artist. For the “up” part, before the first Kreps outing, he made colorful hand-painted signs that said things like “Don’t Steal My Car Stereo, I’m Queer,” “I slept with Martin Kippenberger,” and “Knock knock. Who’s there? Loser.”

For this typically uneven, self-deprecating, cutely snide, and wonderfully double-entendre-laden show, Leibowitz includes a brightly colored circular painting that says “tondo schmondo,” surrounded by knit caps that say “Fran Drescher Fan Club.” There’s also a series of lipstick-colored paintings that say “I Love Warhol Piss Paintings,” a Marcia Tucker seat cushion, a Cindy Sheehan megaphone, and “J’Adore Gertrude Stein” buttons. Although this is only Leibowitz in his middle gears, the exhibition suggests he ought to show more. If he had been included in MOMA’s current unfunny “Comic Abstraction” exhibition, for example, people might at least have giggled. If he were granted the franchise to open gift shops in a few American art museums, it could be even better.

For this alluring, transitional follow-up to his outstanding debut at this gallery three years ago, Karel Funk, 36, who lives and works in Winnipeg, continues his attempt to ravish the eye with his hyper-realist paintings. As with his debut, this exhibition—somewhat disappointing though still impressive—is composed entirely of images of young men outfitted in contemporary dress. In the two best paintings, Funk’s males are situated so that we can see their faces, although each has his eyes closed. These paintings radiate exile and are rife with feelings of concealment, isolation, shyness, and shame, as well as the mysteries of the inward-turning Buddha.

Funk’s rendering of synthetic fabrics and plastics already makes him a Robert Ryman of Gore-Tex, hoodies, headphones, and windbreakers. Three big changes are evident in his new work. The paintings are slightly larger, the color range is narrower, and more figures are have their backs to us. Unfortunately, this results in a troubling loss of psychological and visual density. The hallucinatory hyper-lucidity that formerly triggered off an almost unbearable optical alertness, and made it feel as if our eyes were on amphetamines, is now being neutralized by the expanses of white.

Still, Funk is an amazing painter. His techniques and how his figures are posed restage what a painting actually is. Just as his figures turn away from you and are unaware of your presence, so all paintings are inanimate, and in that sense turned away from you. Just as these young men seem to be in an indeterminate philosophical and private space, Funk’s paintings make you feel that way about the space you inhabit.

The best of Rachel Harrison’s smartly snarky, heavily attitudinal, sometimes traditional-looking new free-standing sculptural amalgamations—some of which sport stuffed chickens and diet drinks—look as if Robert Rauschenberg, Jean Dubuffet, Louise Nevelson, and John Chamberlain made sculptures together and had Renoir and Hans Hoffmann paint them while Jessica Stockholder, Isa Genzken, and Franz West kibitzed. As you circumnavigate her angular cubistic twists and craggy abstract caryatids and columns you get reverberations of these artists as well as histories and -isms gone-by.

Harrison takes a lot of chances in her art. As a result, her work often produces only mild surprise, looks cruddy, or comes off like a sight gag. This happens in her current show with pieces like Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Johnny Depp, and Pasquale Paoli—the last of which looks like a cross between Christo and Joseph Beuys. Harrison spices up her influences, however, with elements of the news, biography, mythology, and monuments to the dead in ways that feel vivacious, visionary, comic, slightly mad, and pointedly political.

Her current work is particularly prickly when it comes to the subject of men. This hits you before you even walk in the door. Harrison’s exhibition is sarcastically titled after O.J.’s un-televised confessional special, If I Did It—as if to say, “Only a man who’s a probable murderer could come up with such a cocky title.” Here, Harrison, who at 41 has slowly become one of the better makers of walk-around sculpture working today, bitch-slaps Simpson and at the same time implicates herself in some crime. In this case, she’s immersing herself in two forms in apparent crisis—men and autonomous sculpture.

The exhibition consists of 10 poly- or monochrome monoliths or sculptural clumps. Each looks like a papier-mâché stalagmite with found objects attached, and is named after a famous male. There’s Amerigo Vespucci, covered in psychedelic measles; John Locke, who wrote about “combining several simple ideas into one compound,” which is a good description of what Harrison is doing; Johnny Depp, whose comment “America is a broken toy” fits the work named after him;
Alexander the Great, a boat shape with a male mannequin standing on it; and Al Gore, a bulky rectangular pylon that looks like a mottled Monet painting.

Each Harrison sculpture functions like an abstract rebus. The thermostat on Al Gore not only makes you think about his signature issue but also about what the temperature might be of his future, as well as the sculpture’s. The half-eaten apple on Amerigo Vespucci conjures thoughts of paradise and loss, and again the state of sculpture itself—as if sculpture has been cast out of the garden of contemporary art. Atop Tiger Woods is a can of something called “Lite Green Tea and Lemonade,” a drink invented by golfer Arnold Palmer, that just makes you think about how bizarre taste is.

The main gallery is over-installed. Yet the room still transforms into a kind of sculptural graveyard. Harrison’s isolated works turn into zombies, ghosts, and surrogate figures. Together they’re like some mummified Greek chorus or a walk-in version of Raphael’s The School of Athens in which a silent dialog between the dead and the living is taking place—a good metaphor for what it is to look at art.

Harrison obviously has divided feelings about sculpture and memorializing men. On the one hand, she lovingly made these “guys” with a very sensuous, attentive touch. On the other, she’s pointing at how relatively rare and maybe old-fashioned stand-alone medium-sized sculpture is. Indeed, nowadays museums and galleries are brimming with atrium-and-room-filling installations of stuff. Harrison is acknowledging that the form she’s using is considered conservative and passé. Yet, like Amy Sillman who approaches painting similarly, Harrison evinces a real passion for tradition. Along with lots of other contemporary artists, Harrison and Sillman love art; they’re not arguing with it as postmodernists or casting themselves as somehow against it. They continually contest and question the forms and structures of art but they also use artists whose work has either been deemed too well-known or tapped-out to tinker with. They remind us that just because certain movements and artists go out of fashion doesn’t mean they can’t still yield aesthetic pay dirt. Their work is a further indication that what might be called the “Oppositional Aesthetics” of late postmodernism, the boring binary idea that one thing always has to negate another, is finally—and may I say thankfully—waning.

Thus, Harrison’s graveyard is fuller than meets the eye. The surfaces seem to be covered in scar tissue, crust, and fermentation, leaving these little phallic monoliths and monsters suspended between reality and decay, clownishness and tragedy. You get a vivid sense of damaged lives and lurid histories. Harrison has given us sculpture that is at once obstreperous, ossified, rotting, and weirdly touching. Which is a good description of the rule of men today.

Artist Schmartist

Snide show: Cary Leibowitz leaves his lipstick traces

Whether it’s a noble cause or a survival strategy, this gallery’s stated mission is to “focus on mid-career artists who emerged in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.” Although almost every dealer shows artists who emerged during these decades, it’s nice that this gallery is going through the back catalog of recent art history to see who’s been left behind. This micro-niche is paying dividends in the current show of Cary Leibowitz, that intermittently excellent sad-sack connoisseur of all things gaudy, queer, Jewish, and beautiful.

Once upon a time in the early 1990s, Leibowitz, who then also went by the name “Candy Ass,” was a poster child of the über-popular burp variously deemed “Pathetic Aesthetic,” “Abject Art,” and “Loser Art.” Leibowitz hasn’t exactly been “left behind.” His rousing 2001 Andrew Kreps exhibition, titled “Gain! Wait! Now!,” included paintings that said “Stop copying me” and “Do these pants make me look Jewish?” Unfortunately, his follow-up show was lackadaisical and iffy. Leibowitz has always been an up-and-down artist. For the “up” part, before the first Kreps outing, he made colorful hand-painted signs that said things like “Don’t Steal My Car Stereo, I’m Queer,” “I slept with Martin Kippenberger,” and “Knock knock. Who’s there? Loser.”

For this typically uneven, self-deprecating, cutely snide, and wonderfully double-entendre-laden show, Leibowitz includes a brightly colored circular painting that says “tondo schmondo,” surrounded by knit caps that say “Fran Drescher Fan Club.” There’s also a series of lipstick-colored paintings that say “I Love Warhol Piss Paintings,” a Marcia Tucker seat cushion, a Cindy Sheehan megaphone, and “J’Adore Gertrude Stein” buttons. Although this is only Leibowitz in his middle gears, the exhibition suggests he ought to show more. If he had been included in MOMA’s current unfunny “Comic Abstraction” exhibition, for example, people might at least have giggled. If he were granted the franchise to open gift shops in a few American art museums, it could be even better.

By now I no longer know if I like Carroll Dunham’s paintings because we’re friends or if we’re friends because I like his paintings. So anything I say about his work is biased—although over the years I have relentlessly ribbed Dunham about how limiting and wrong it might be that he seems to paint the same male character over and over again. For his part, in published interviews Dunham has denied that this thing is a character at all, identifying it instead as a “shape” or a set of “formal concerns” and “painterly events” in “graphic fields.” Whatever it is, it’s a no-eyed, blind, fedora-wearing cipher, gangster, rogue detective, or man in a gray flannel suit with a dick for a nose and a scrotum on his upper lip or testicles sprouting from the back of his neck. He often sports an L-shaped gun or sometimes a bullwhip. His activities include running amok in some exploding star-filled universe, madly defending homesteads, fighting to keep his head above water, wandering across landscapes, or just posing for an endless array of surrealistic portraits against Art Deco, Cubistic, and Constructivist backgrounds.

By my figuring, this character appeared in Dunham’s work as early as 1990, albeit as a multicolored biomorphic blob with multiple sexual organs and a cilia-covered membrane that floated in a psychedelic amniotic sea. Eventually, Dunham gave birth to a brood of similar-looking geometrized monsters, clowns, goons, freaks of nature, snake-oil salesmen, dapper Dans, mercenary businessmen, roving caballeros, and demented goblins.

In the main room of his current exhibition five of these figures are pictured against canary-yellow backgrounds. Writer David Colman brilliantly complimented the series as “Men’s wear Malevich.” However, if this show had only contained these paintings, I’d admire that Dunham was expanding his formal language, but I wouldn’t break my own rule against writing about friends.

But something somewhat shocking, sensationalistic, and to my mind sensational, has happened in Dunham’s work. In two other rooms, Dunham seems to be painting from a place that not even he knew he had, someplace formed by experience, observation, id, current events, mythic history, black magic, and the imagination. Two of these paintings, Giant and Square Mule, are so intense I felt as if they knocked me down, gathered me up, and tossed me about the room again. Three other irregularly shaped diptych-portraits look like fragmentary ruins from some ancient Mayan or Roman fresco cycle. Dunham’s character is in all of these paintings but something has happened to him, or to us, or to the worlds we inhabit. In these two imposing pictures he’s bare-assed and bent over with his anus in the viewer’s face like some mad humanoid Baboon in a state of sexual presenting. On his left thigh he sports a decorative tribal tattoo, on his right there’s an ovular mole or mark-of-Cain. Things turn really savage, voluptuous, and schizoid, however, as he also displays his…vagina, which is painted to resemble a squishy éclair in one canvas and in the other, a bagpipe with flutes and pubic hair. It’s as if Dunham is simultaneously painting the power of the vagina while his characters act out Oedipus’s woeful words, “I come to offer you a gift, my tortured body.”

In Square Mule this latrine-based incubus sticks a gun into his own ass in order to blow his own brains out and to send him, and presumably us, to kingdom come. This may be what Dostoevsky meant by, “He who is ready to kill himself becomes a God,” or what Nietzsche had in mind when he wrote “One must have chaos in oneself.” Regardless, other precedents in Western art for this type of image include Mapplethorpe’s photograph of him putting a bullwhip up his ass, Peter Saul’s depiction of Clement Greenberg inserting a paintbrush into his vagina, Tom of Finland, Hieronymus Bosch, Dali who wrote about “monstrous excrescences…and a delirium of auto-strangulation,” possibly Otto Dix, and Picasso’s great way of painting Marie-Therese’s anus.

What’s remarkable about Square Mule is that not only are you beholding this full-blown abject subject matter, you’re seeing through it to deeper content. This is an image of the end of empire. It is someone getting medieval on his own ass, embodying Homeland Security and turning himself into a war machine. While the word Square in the title describes the painting’s shape, the word Mule alludes to the hybrid animal that can’t reproduce itself—which is a perfect metaphor for the endgame America may currently be engaged in. This is America as a failed state. Thus, the painting is a picture of humiliation, bloodletting, armament, defiance, kowtowing, idolatry, annihilation, and pleasure. The character becomes a God of death and sex as well as an anal-sadistic warrior. Not only is this creature a suicide bomber, a lone gunman, and a wounded beast, he’s us—a collective body in psychic civil war.

Meanwhile, Giant may not be a literal picture of battle, but it is a rendition of the torpor and confusion of this moment, the vacuity, power, waste, and cynicism of it all. This toxic creature—neither man nor woman but both—dominates and cannibalizes itself and its surroundings. He is a Sade-like sphincter that exudes forces of darkness and desire.

Giant and Square Mule are images of occupied territory and the divided self. They speak of Hell on Earth and a netherworld of ghosts and demons. Dunham’s art may strike some as dogged, simplistic, overly antic, repetitious, and too wedded to modernism and cartoons. Perhaps, but he’s also painting from a very pre-modern, almost talismanic place, while coming close to portraying the deadlock (and maybe death struggle) we’re engaged in.

Optic Nerve

Karel Funk turns inward

For this alluring, transitional follow-up to his outstanding debut at this gallery three years ago, Karel Funk, 36, who lives and works in Winnipeg, continues his attempt to ravish the eye with his hyper-realist paintings. As with his debut, this exhibition—somewhat disappointing though still impressive—is composed entirely of images of young men outfitted in contemporary dress. In the two best paintings, Funk’s males are situated so that we can see their faces, although each has his eyes closed. These paintings radiate exile and are rife with feelings of concealment, isolation, shyness, and shame, as well as the mysteries of the inward-turning Buddha.

Funk’s rendering of synthetic fabrics and plastics already makes him a Robert Ryman of Gore-Tex, hoodies, headphones, and windbreakers. Three big changes are evident in his new work. The paintings are slightly larger, the color range is narrower, and more figures are have their backs to us. Unfortunately, this results in a troubling loss of psychological and visual density. The hallucinatory hyper-lucidity that formerly triggered off an almost unbearable optical alertness, and made it feel as if our eyes were on amphetamines, is now being neutralized by the expanses of white.

Still, Funk is an amazing painter. His techniques and how his figures are posed restage what a painting actually is. Just as his figures turn away from you and are unaware of your presence, so all paintings are inanimate, and in that sense turned away from you. Just as these young men seem to be in an indeterminate philosophical and private space, Funk’s paintings make you feel that way about the space you inhabit.

Whether it’s a noble cause or a survival strategy, this gallery’s stated mission is to “focus on mid-career artists who emerged in the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s.” Although almost every dealer shows artists who emerged during these decades, it’s nice that this gallery is going through the back catalog of recent art history to see who’s been left behind. This micro-niche is paying dividends in the current show of Cary Leibowitz, that intermittently excellent sad-sack connoisseur of all things gaudy, queer, Jewish, and beautiful.

Once upon a time in the early 1990s, Leibowitz, who then also went by the name “Candy Ass,” was a poster child of the über-popular burp variously deemed “Pathetic Aesthetic,” “Abject Art,” and “Loser Art.” Leibowitz hasn’t exactly been “left behind.” His rousing 2001 Andrew Kreps exhibition, titled “Gain! Wait! Now!,” included paintings that said “Stop copying me” and “Do these pants make me look Jewish?” Unfortunately, his follow-up show was lackadaisical and iffy. Leibowitz has always been an up-and-down artist. For the “up” part, before the first Kreps outing, he made colorful hand-painted signs that said things like “Don’t Steal My Car Stereo, I’m Queer,” “I slept with Martin Kippenberger,” and “Knock knock. Who’s there? Loser.”

For this typically uneven, self-deprecating, cutely snide, and wonderfully double-entendre-laden show, Leibowitz includes a brightly colored circular painting that says “tondo schmondo,” surrounded by knit caps that say “Fran Drescher Fan Club.” There’s also a series of lipstick-colored paintings that say “I Love Warhol Piss Paintings,” a Marcia Tucker seat cushion, a Cindy Sheehan megaphone, and “J’Adore Gertrude Stein” buttons. Although this is only Leibowitz in his middle gears, the exhibition suggests he ought to show more. If he had been included in MOMA’s current unfunny “Comic Abstraction” exhibition, for example, people might at least have giggled. If he were granted the franchise to open gift shops in a few American art museums, it could be even better.

Now that much of the art world functions like a heat-seeking money-making missile, it’s hard to keep your envy, cynicism, and churlishness in check. Yet we need to get a grip. Despite all appearances to the contrary, only about one-percent-of-one-percent of all artists make money from or are lauded for their work—possibly much less. The problem is that nowadays this infinitesimal percent is dominating the airwaves. At times you can think “Everyone’s on track but me.” Downer that this is, it’s not new. Only the names and faces change.

Take the January 15 cover of New York magazine featuring three cute, young white male artists canoodling in their underpants in bed together. Inside, a 12-page spread gushed about how Ryan McGinley, Dash Snow, and Dan Colen are showing everywhere and making fistfuls of money; one of the trio is a drug-addled scion of an American fortune, another has an “impressive penis.” For the moment the market is a new kind of cash-and-carry W.P.A. in which more artists, many mediocre, are able to support themselves from their art. At the risk of being a buzz kill, however, a sorting-out is going to take place. Sooner or later, faster than you can say “Rainer Fetting,” many artists now being hailed as major stars will be remembered as little more than minor blips. As for the scion featured in New York, if Snow’s work doesn’t get more original, all that will one day be said about it will be that we had the luxury to say a lot about it. Which brings us to Terence Koh, who had a four-page spread of his own in that same issue of New York. There we learned that Koh is a critical and market darling who sells work to mega-collectors for upwards of $500,000, maintains studios in three cities, has employed as many as 28 assistants at once, and dances with skeletons. Koh’s latest installation, now filling or not filling or maybe spilling out from the Whitney Museum’s Lobby Gallery, consists of the brightest light I’ve ever seen in the otherwise empty white lobby gallery. That’s pretty much it.

It would be easy to dismiss Koh’s Whitney piece as the latest in a long line of almost-empty installations—a tried-and-true avant garde tradition that dates back to 1959 when Yves Klein exhibited an empty gallery as art. Koh, 38, could be derided as a flash-in-the-pan. After all, as with many of the current crop of super-hyped, although undoubtedly sincere artists, who think they’re playing the media but who are probably being played by it, Koh’s posturing is already almost making his work a laughingstock. What’s intriguing about Koh, however, is that despite the histrionic kitsch and spectacle in his work, not to mention influences like Joseph Beuys, Bruce Nauman, David Wojnarowicz, and virtually every angry-young-man artist who has used blood, semen, and skulls in the last 30 years, Koh has a way with density and theatricality, and an ability to integrate these things with materials and his own psyche.

Koh’s press release claims that his installation is about “dark matter,” “cosmic events,” and “queer space.” None of this is actually evident in the work. The most historic thing about Koh’s Whitney installation is that now that he’s put a very bright light in a museum, no one will ever have to do it again. Yet there’s an enticingly physical, even philosophical pull to the work.
Surprisingly, the Whitney piece connects to the aggressive ways Gordon Matta-Clark (whose gnarly retrospective is upstairs) split space. Koh’s installation lacks the experimentalism and rigor of Matta-Clark, the beauty and directness of Dan Flavin, and the depth of James Turrell. Nevertheless, it exudes nerviness and desire, and makes you extremely aware not only of your own body and the bodies of others, but of being brought into close contact with the power of light. The glaring incandescence makes you cognizant of how you and the museum are connected to the power grid, and to the massive forces that keep all this in motion. You’re in touch with some hidden space of elsewhere. This lends his work weird Marxist dashes of alienation and disassociation, mixed with something utopian and seductive.

The physical way that Koh uses light also makes you understand that seeing can hurt, which is a weird and wonderful thing to think about in a museum. On a very basic level we go to museums to use our eyes in order to gain personal and collective knowledge. We’re there to experience feeling and thought from looking. Thus, museums are transporters that metaphysically take us to inner-and-outer dimensions. They are places to escape the crowd and enter the group mind, but also to break free of the group mind to reintegrate with the crowd. In museums we hope to experience rapture from form. This makes museums, among other things, ecstasy machines. Koh turns the museum into an agony machine. Something about the sheer immensity of sight, of seeing so much so that you can’t see anything at all, temporarily rescues Koh’s work from the burn-out and ersatz mysticism that dogs his work.

Street Cred

Let a thousand galleries (and paintings) bloom south of Chelsea

An art world mini-district south of Chelsea already peppered with a handful of excellent galleries just got better. After being closed for more than a year, one of the most punchy, impertinent, and unpredictable gallerists in the American (if not the international) art world, a sort of one-woman energy-and-event-machine, our own Calamity Jane/Peggy Guggenheim, Michelle Maccarone re-opened her gallery a block north of Gavin Brown in the West Village. Making matters better, she did this in an amazingly well designed, far from slick, 8,000-square-foot ground floor space. On the night of the reopening I found her in the gallery’s basement, surrounded by a few close friends, and towers of paper and junk, sipping water and trying on shoes. Maccarone’s debut exhibition is Christian Jankowski, who in the past has incorporated faith healers and fortune-tellers in his art. His current show, “Super Classical,” is a mixed affair that starts iffy and ends interesting. In the middle of the otherwise empty first gallery are three life-sized bronze sculptures of figures that street performers impersonate on sidewalks. There’s Che Guevara, a Salvador Dali statue of a woman, and a seated Roman legionnaire. The sculptures are solid, stylistically non-descript, and clunky-looking. After two minutes of thinking about how it’s nifty to see these sculptures more frozen and dead then ever, and therefore somewhat undead, you’ll want to move on to the better part of the show. “The China Painters” is a group of eight large paintings that the wily Jankowski commissioned from “a painting sweatshop” in China where for 20 years Chinese workers have replicated western masterpieces for North American and European hotel lobbies. China is currently building hundreds of new museums. Jankowski asked these workers to make paintings they thought should go into these museums. There’s a Courbet-like seascape, a family portrait, a jade pot, an ersatz abstraction, and Delacroix’s “Liberty Leading the People.” Scariest of all is the giant Bob Ross/Thomas Kinkade landscape. Jankowski reminds us that if our linear ideas about art history aren’t outmoded, when China’s museums are up and running, they’ll be blown to smithereens.

An art world mini-district south of Chelsea already peppered with a handful of excellent galleries just got better. After being closed for more than a year, one of the most punchy, impertinent, and unpredictable gallerists in the American (if not the international) art world, a sort of one-woman energy-and-event-machine, our own Calamity Jane/Peggy Guggenheim, Michelle Maccarone re-opened her gallery a block north of Gavin Brown in the West Village. Making matters better, she did this in an amazingly well designed, far from slick, 8,000-square-foot ground floor space. On the night of the reopening I found her in the gallery’s basement, surrounded by a few close friends, and towers of paper and junk, sipping water and trying on shoes.

Maccarone’s debut exhibition is Christian Jankowski, who in the past has incorporated faith healers and fortune-tellers in his art. His current show, “Super Classical,” is a mixed affair that starts iffy and ends interesting. In the middle of the otherwise empty first gallery are three life-sized bronze sculptures of figures that street performers impersonate on sidewalks. There’s Che Guevara, a Salvador Dali statue of a woman, and a seated Roman legionnaire. The sculptures are solid, stylistically non-descript, and clunky-looking. After two minutes of thinking about how it’s nifty to see these sculptures more frozen and dead then ever, and therefore somewhat undead, you’ll want to move on to the better part of the show.

“The China Painters” is a group of eight large paintings that the wily Jankowski commissioned from “a painting sweatshop” in China where for 20 years Chinese workers have replicated western masterpieces for North American and European hotel lobbies. China is currently building hundreds of new museums. Jankowski asked these workers to make paintings they thought should go into these museums. There’s a Courbet-like seascape, a family portrait, a jade pot, an ersatz abstraction, and Delacroix’s “Liberty Leading the People.” Scariest of all is the giant Bob Ross/Thomas Kinkade landscape. Jankowski reminds us that if our linear ideas about art history aren’t outmoded, when China’s museums are up and running, they’ll be blown to smithereens.

David Hammons, the notoriously elusive, much admired, cult-like figure whose work can hit you in the solar plexus with its poetic ferocity and righteous anger, drops a heavy aesthetic anchor into murky waters. Hammons exudes renegade aura by living off the art-world grid, courted as he has been by countless high-powered galleries, refusing to sign with any, opting instead to go his own way. This hasn’t stopped galleries, however, from mounting not one but two unauthorized surveys of his oeuvre in the last year.

For this quietly fiery exhibition at a fancy Upper East Side townhouse—a gallery no one including the gallery itself expected Hammons to exhibit in—the 63-year-old artist contacted the dealers “out of the blue,” according to L & M, with an idea that he said “would perfectly fit the gallery’s space and history.” True to his double-edged Garbo-meets-assassin form, however, Hammons—here, working with his wife, Chie Hammons—didn’t divulge the idea, saying only that he’d fund the project, the work wouldn’t be for sale during the show, and there’d be no press release. The gallery still doesn’t know the price of the installation. To seal the deal, Hammons uttered two words most artists wish they could get away with but can’t, for reasons of clout, money, or nerve: “Trust me.” We should be thankful that the gallery did because Hammons and his wife are presenting something that, while stagy and seemingly simple, is also bitter and fairly brilliant.

The only thing you see upon entering L & M is the empty, opulent front gallery. In the elegant space beyond this, however, are five antique dress forms. Each has been outfitted with a full-length fur coat—two minks, a fox, a sable, and a wolf. Alone, upstairs, is a chinchilla. That’s the whole show. A fashion friend told me these coats, if bought new, could cost more than a hundred thousand dollars—which is either mind-blowingly expensive for clothes or cheap for art. If you Google “killing animals for fur” you’ll learn that, “To make one fur coat you must kill at least 100 chinchillas, 55 mink, 15 wolves, or 11 foxes. Animals that have been trapped die slow, excruciating deaths. If farmed, they are gassed, suffocated, or electrocuted through the mouth and anus so the pelt is not singed or stained with blood.”

As if this weren’t enough, Hammons and his wife have also painted, burned, burnished, and stained the backs of all of these coats, turning them into aesthetic/ethical/sartorial traps. This transforms the coats into paintings and the paintings into something much more double-edged than usual. At L & M, Hammons is also activating something he’s often put into motion: The idea of a specific audience for art. Many clients who normally frequent this tony space aren’t quite the same hungry hyenas prowling Chelsea for paradigm shifts. Thus, the specificity of this audience is skewed and erratic. The work is not only meant for “us” and “them,” it throws these terms into question. In no time we’re them, they’re us, and it’s not clear who’s who. Hammons fans know this is the tricky quicksand he thrives in. As Hammons has said, “I like to talk in confusions.”

This confusion has not only been influential, if firmly rooted in Dada, Duchamp, assemblage, and something deeply maverick, it’s been intensifying for 40 years. Hammons has made and sold snowballs outside an art school; slung shoes over an outdoor Richard Serra sculpture; installed 50-foot poles with basketball hoops in Harlem; festooned trees in upper Manhattan with empty wine bottles; constructed a “Spirit House” in Battery Park; raffled sheep in Dakar; installed urinals in a Belgium wood; and performed on the streets of Zaire. As for the furs, not only are they an emblem for an art world in the midst of a feeding frenzy, and a world with little regard for the natural environment, they’re an extenuation of the eccentric materials Hammons has always used, including hair, chicken bones, stuffed cats, and elephant dung (this last in 1978).

At L & M, Hammons adds his considerable feel for absence. Over the last 40 years this artist has made installations that entailed leaving a lot of galleries empty or semi-empty, notably the gigantic Ace Gallery in New York, which in 2002 he cast in total darkness, providing tiny blue flashlights with which to navigate, or his 1998 installation at the Kunsthalle in Bern that entailed a bluish light and the music of Miles Davis, John Coltrane, Charlie Parker, among others. Hammons has said that he wants “to slide away from visuals and get deeper.” At L & M, not only does Hammons do this; along the way he conjures thoughts of shamanism, politics, consumerism, animism, genre painting, animal rights, and jokes. Here, we’re treated to a sensibility as barbed, serious, maybe fearsome, and as passionate as any in the art world.

Vision Thing

Sarah Anne Johnson blurs the line between mediums

I imagine that Sarah Anne Johnson self-identifies as a photographer. What’s so refreshing about her work, beyond its weird, wistful, even wise vision, is that Johnson is nervy and curious enough not only to make straight and set-up photographs but also dolls, drawings, architectural models, and dioramas. In other words, Johnson is a photographer who allows her visionquest to extend beyond the boundaries of her chosen medium.

In “The Galapagos Project,” her second solo outing since her outstanding debut at this gallery two years ago, that openness to other materials, as well as the ambition of her vision, allows her to cross-breed genres like documentary, fiction, fantasy, nature photography, diary-writing, posters of cute guys, and even travel and adventure novels. Basically, Johnson is using photography as a type of philosophy, a way of thinking—that is, mainly as a tool, not a crutch.

For this show Johnson presents more than 60 photos, a handful of drawings, and a grouping of small sculpted figures. All are based on her recent visits to the Galapagos Islands, where young, idealistic fellow travelers volunteer to clean the local environment in the face of encroaching civilization. You get the sweet pathos, grungy glamour, camaraderie, and hopelessness of the endeavor. There are pictures of kids clearing invasive undergrowth, butchering animals that aren’t indigenous to the region, or just staring into space as if they were lost. Johnson’s way of zeroing in on the private aspects of this global thinking is also brought home in a huge model of the bare-bones cabin these devoted souls inhabit. You can almost hear the crickets and smell the bad body odor.

It’s great that Johnson isn’t fenced in by one medium. Still, there’s a scattershot quality to this otherwise excellent show that suggests that she does need to hone her skills in all of her media in order for her to be the kind of quadruple-threat artist that I think she has every possibility of becoming.

I imagine that Sarah Anne Johnson self-identifies as a photographer. What’s so refreshing about her work, beyond its weird, wistful, even wise vision, is that Johnson is nervy and curious enough not only to make straight and set-up photographs but also dolls, drawings, architectural models, and dioramas. In other words, Johnson is a photographer who allows her visionquest to extend beyond the boundaries of her chosen medium.

In “The Galapagos Project,” her second solo outing since her outstanding debut at this gallery two years ago, that openness to other materials, as well as the ambition of her vision, allows her to cross-breed genres like documentary, fiction, fantasy, nature photography, diary-writing, posters of cute guys, and even travel and adventure novels. Basically, Johnson is using photography as a type of philosophy, a way of thinking—that is, mainly as a tool, not a crutch.

For this show Johnson presents more than 60 photos, a handful of drawings, and a grouping of small sculpted figures. All are based on her recent visits to the Galapagos Islands, where young, idealistic fellow travelers volunteer to clean the local environment in the face of encroaching civilization. You get the sweet pathos, grungy glamour, camaraderie, and hopelessness of the endeavor. There are pictures of kids clearing invasive undergrowth, butchering animals that aren’t indigenous to the region, or just staring into space as if they were lost. Johnson’s way of zeroing in on the private aspects of this global thinking is also brought home in a huge model of the bare-bones cabin these devoted souls inhabit. You can almost hear the crickets and smell the bad body odor.

It’s great that Johnson isn’t fenced in by one medium. Still, there’s a scattershot quality to this otherwise excellent show that suggests that she does need to hone her skills in all of her media in order for her to be the kind of quadruple-threat artist that I think she has every possibility of becoming.

“Andrea Fraser is a whore”: That’s how a fellow critic responded when I told him I was writing on Fraser’s current show. As evidence he cited “Untitled,” Fraser’s one-hour silent video shown in 2004 in which she has what she called “just regular sex” with an art collector who reportedly paid $20,000, “not for sex,” according to the artist, but “to make an artwork.” The collector, collaborator, co-star, John, or whatever you want to call him, was a sturdy white man in his early forties. Fraser—who in recent years has regularly appeared nearly or completely naked in her work—is this cute, nerdy looking librarian-type above the neck but some ultra-worked-out Super Theory Woman below the shoulders.

The sex in “Untitled” is stilted but sweet. After sitting and talking, he awkwardly touches her, she kisses him, then initiates most of what follows. After mutual oral sex they have intercourse in several positions. He apparently ejaculates inside her (which seems pretty intimate to me). Defending “Untitled” to my angry critic acquaintance, I talked about women taking control, Baudelaire’s idea of the artist as prostitute, institutional critique art that risks being vulnerable, reality TV, and reminded him that men like Chris Burden and Vito Acconci did illegal and sexual things in their work and no one ever called them “whores.” He wasn’t swayed. Fraser had evidently crossed some sort of ethical-aesthetic gender-specific line.

Which brings us to her current, succinct exhibition of seven color photographs based on pictures made more than 20 years ago and one excellent new 12-minute videotape. This outing does three things well. First, it shows this leading light of so-called institutional critique smartly stepping back from the line she crossed with “Untitled” and avoiding anything overtly sensationalistic. Second, it traces Fraser’s knotty trajectory from being an appropriation artist who, however competent, veered too close to tropes already in use by artists like Louise Lawler, Sherrie Levine, Richard Prince, Martha Rosler, and Adrian Piper, to becoming an intermittently singular maker of something abberant, deeper, and complicated. Finally, it demonstrates Fraser’s nimble melding of theory, weirdness, and psychoanalysis with autobiography, performance, and her own batty sensibility.

The seven photos are all new. All, however, are derived from slide projections she originally made in 1984. Each medium-sized picture is a kind of Frankensteinian combination of two or three images overlaid to make something jarring but oddly familiar. We see amalgams of some of our favorite painterly things from different artistic eras, a De Kooning or Pollock projected over a Titian or Raphael. Thus we get images of women by men redeployed by a woman in love with but skeptical of these pictures. In one photo you see a Titian “Madonna and Child” with the sexual drawing of one of De Kooning’s wild busty “Women” over it. The Christ child appears to reach out for these two huge De Kooning orbs, while De Kooning’s “Woman” drawing makes Titian’s Madonna turn into a sort of whore. There’s that word again. Whatever, it’s porn for theory mavens and theory for art lovers. Remarkably, these pictures are pretty good—although as lovely as they are, they’re still too literal.

Her new video, “A Visit to the Vatican,” on the other hand brings us back into the thick of Fraser’s strangeness. We see her with the thronging crowds walking through the Vatican Museum on her way to the Sistine Chapel. The action is as sweet and stilted as “Untitled,” and its money-shot is just as buried. The soundtrack is the museum’s Acoustiguide. To strains of baroque music, a guide commands Fraser where to look and reminds her to “be pious.” Fraser dutifully tries to comply, which sets up a wonderful ironic Bondage & Domination call-and-response. As Fraser makes her way from gallery to gallery, she’s led through various gift shops and bookstores. Meanwhile, tour guides from every country constantly signal to their charges. It all turns into a religious Disneyland. I won’t spoil the Sistine Chapel-ending except to say that not only does it capture some of the magic of this room, it shows how much Fraser respects and adores art. In her own uncanny way she is always asking, “What do we want from art?”

This questioning, vulnerability, strangeness, and love distinguish Fraser from most so-called “Institutional Critique” artists. By now, and despite the fact that every work of art is a critique or theory about the way art should look or be displayed, the “institutional critique” mode is so in vogue that one has to wonder how any artist can purport to critique institutions that are so utterly enamored of the very critique the art is making. Criteria should be applied to this kind of art, like whether this work makes serious inquiries that are not grounded in belly-button-gazing, too many pre-approved aesthetic orthodoxies, insider-to-insider insularity, or above-it-all pretenses of being “outside the market” while exhibiting within a gallery or institution. Examining the mechanisms of the system is important. Artists, however, shouldn’t just be content to bite the hand that feeds them. More artists might consider critiquing the power structure the way Hogarth did—with style, wit, ferocity, guile, doggedness, and a knife that cuts in many directions. These are the things that give Fraser’s art its edge.

Unraveled Tapestry

Eve Sussman loses the thread of a masterpiece

Two videos made waves in June 2004. Andrea Fraser’s one-hour tape of her having sex with a collector and Eve Sussman’s 89 Seconds at Alcazar, a dreamy 10-minute reenactment of the events leading up to Diego Velázquez’s towering masterpiece Las Meninas, took the art world by storm as part of that year’s otherwise only OK Whitney Biennial.

Sussman had been around the art world for years, but 89 Seconds deservedly made her an overnight sensation. Now she’s back with a massively ambitious new work, The Rape of the Sabine Women (screening at the IFC Center during the Armory Show). Like 89 Seconds, Rape takes a famous painting as a starting point, here Jacques-Louis David’s crystalline neo-classic 1799 canvas of the same name (although the film looks more like Poussin’s more turbulent version). While
89 Seconds was elaborate, mysterious, captivating, and avoided the gimmicky hokeyness that usually surrounds re-staging famous paintings, Rape is an over-the-top, over-produced 80-minute hodgepodge that borders on portentousness, cliché, and artiness.

Sussman, a control-freak’s control-freak, essentially made four or five different films, all of them promising. The last 12-minute segment is ravishing, although quite reminiscent of
89 Seconds. Together, Rape is an unraveled tapestry of influences, effects, and high-styling. Sussman’s amazing feel for texture, sound, color, slo-mo, and blocking is present. Her sense of scale, timing, and mystery, however, are eclipsed by overblown schmaltziness. With a cast of as many as 800, Rape was shot in fantastic-looking locations and features men in black suits and women in A-line shifts. There’s a lot of pensive looking around, standing about, and struggling, and enough telegraphed angst to fill five high-school productions of
Our Town. Unfortunately there’s also a lot of unprocessed references to and borrowings from Bill Viola, Matthew Barney, Sharon Lockhart, Stanley Kubrick, New Wave Cinema, Shirin Neshat, Star Trek, and The Twilight Zone. Sussman is talented. Rape is merely a failed experiment, albeit an insanely expensive-looking one. She just needs to regain the concentration, internal scale, and exquisite enigma of 89 Seconds and steer clear of this kind of directionless spectacle.

Two videos made waves in June 2004. One, Andrea Fraser’s one-hour tape of her having sex with a collector had people arguing. The other, Eve Sussman’s 89 Seconds at Alcazar, a dreamy 10-minute reenactment of the events leading up to Diego Velázquez’s towering masterpiece Las Meninas, took the art world by storm as part of that year’s otherwise only OK Whitney Biennial.

Sussman had been around the art world for years, but 89 Seconds deservedly made her an overnight sensation. Now she’s back with a massively ambitious new work, The Rape of the Sabine Women (screening at the IFC Center during the Armory Show). Like 89 Seconds, Rape takes a famous painting as a starting point, here Jacques-Louis David’s crystalline neo-classic 1799 canvas of the same name (although the film looks more like Poussin’s more turbulent version). While 89 Seconds was elaborate, mysterious, captivating, and avoided the gimmicky hokeyness that usually surrounds re-staging famous paintings, Rape is an over-the-top, over-produced 80-minute hodgepodge that borders on portentousness, cliché, and artiness.

Sussman, a control-freak’s control-freak, essentially made four or five different films, all of them promising. The last 12-minute segment is ravishing, although quite reminiscent of 89 Seconds. Together, Rape is an unraveled tapestry of influences, effects, and high-styling. Sussman’s amazing feel for texture, sound, color, slo-mo, and blocking is present. Her sense of scale, timing, and mystery, however, are eclipsed by overblown schmaltziness. With a cast of as many as 800, Rape was shot in fantastic-looking locations and features men in black suits and women in A-line shifts. There’s a lot of pensive looking around, standing about, and struggling, and enough telegraphed angst to fill five high-school productions of
Our Town. Unfortunately there’s also a lot of unprocessed references to and borrowings from Bill Viola, Matthew Barney, Sharon Lockhart, Stanley Kubrick, New Wave Cinema, Shirin Neshat, Star Trek, and The Twilight Zone. Sussman is talented. Rape is merely a failed experiment, albeit an insanely expensive-looking one. She just needs to regain the concentration, internal scale, and exquisite enigma of 89 Seconds and steer clear of this kind of directionless spectacle.

Martin Ramírez (1895–1963) is the 20th-century Fra Angelico. Like the 15th-century sainted Italian who combined elements of Medieval art with nascent renaissance styles, thereby transforming them into something ravishingly new and forceful, Ramírez extended a mosaic of visual traditions, among them, Mexican folk painting, Spanish liturgical woodblocks, movie magazines, travel posters, vernacular Mexican church architecture, and carved Madonnas from his home parish. In the process Ramírez created something transcendently powerful, beautiful, and new. Not only is Ramírez the best of the so-called “Self-Taught” or “Outsider” artists–baldly limiting, not to mention bogus categories considering that on some level all artists are self-taught–but he ranks as among the greatest artists of the 20th century, along with three other so-called “outsiders,” Adolf Wölfli, Henry Darger, and Bill Traylor.

For a glimpse of an angelic visual energy and earthy intensity, treat yourself to the Martin Ramírez retrospective at the American Folk Art Museum. Impeccably organized and installed in this sadly- broken-up, narrow building by the museum’s messianically dedicated director and curator, Brooke Davis Anderson, this survey rescues Ramírez from the “Outsider” category, presenting nearly 90 works grouped thematically and stylistically. The show establishes that rather than being some easy-to-feel-sorry-for illiterate, insane, mute, Mexican holy-man, Ramírez was literate, sane, and a brilliant draftsman who skillfully melded biography, history, hope, religion, and tragedy.

The tragedy began on August 24, 1925, when Ramírez, then 30, left his wife and four children in central Mexico to find work in the United States. For six years he labored on the railroads and mines of northern California. Then, in January 1931 Ramirez’s world collapsed. Not speaking any English and suffering in the throes of the Great Depression, Ramírez was picked up by police as a vagrant. He was then misdiagnosed as schizophrenic, catatonic, and manic depressive, and committed to California’s Stockton State Hospital. There, he spent the next 17 years of his life. In 1948 he was transferred to DeWitt State Hospital, also in northern California, where he remained until the day he died in 1963. He never saw his wife and family or the outside world again.

The aesthetic part of this 32-year season in hell began in 1949 when, by an act of art-historical grace, Tarmo Pasto, a gifted psychologist working at DeWitt, fell under the spell of Ramírez’s art and began saving it. After amassing around 300 works and arranging several exhibitions of Ramírez’s work, Pasto left DeWitt to teach at Sacramento State College. There, he made Ramírez’s drawings available to other teachers for art and art history courses. In the fall of 1968, artist Jim Nutt happened across these drawings. Utterly floored, he contacted his art dealer, Phyllis Kind, and the two of them arranged to purchase almost all of the Ramírez works from Pasto. The two Chicagoans then set about restoring the drawings and diligently spread the word. In one last bittersweet twist, however, Ramírez’s grand-daughters saw their relative’s art for the first time only the day before this retrospective opened last month, and according to a recent New York Times article, no one in the Ramírez family has ever made a dime from this work.

Ramírez’s genius is a confluence of stylistic influences, pictorial inventiveness, private musing, and sheer visual revelry. Although he is a great linear artist, his regularly repeating and parallel, careful-but-not-fussy lines form enticingly beautiful, powerfully built pictorial wholes that congeal into supple undulating or radiating masses. Everything seems to emit a glow that is at once otherworldly but also very much part of the world. Interweaving elements of abstraction, naturalism, ornamentalism, calligraphy, modernist collage, and visionary verve, Ramírez’s art has a way of being asymmetrically symmetrical – compositions are balanced bi-laterally, but not quite; things on the left often repeat whatever is on the right, but not exactly. This is why his drawings rarely collapse into bull’s-eye neutrality or deadening equilibrium. Like many early woodblocks, or even Ingres’s riveting “Napoleon Enthroned in Majesty,” Ramírez’s work exudes a shocking frontality. His space is at once modern, pre-modern, flat, illusionistic, and fanciful: cave painting by way of illuminated manuscripts.

Ramírez’s subjects fall into several basic categories. His beloved horse and rider almost always appears in an archway, atop a stage, in front of klieg lights. They are centaurs and saints, circus performers, movie stars, and memories of days gone by. In his pictures of trains in rolling landscapes, we’re treated to a combination of mathematical precision and chaos, odd visual combinations that morph into relief maps and prayer rugs. His enthroned madonnas, meanwhile, bring us back to Ingres as well as to classical Greek vase painting where the material, mythological, religious, and symbolic worlds merge. The connection to Fra Angelico is always there in the way that Ramírez’s art, as ambitious, worldly, and austere as it is, is also humble, devout, filled with presence, reverence, poise, and love.

Positively 27th Street

Carving out a home for good nature in Chelsea

A little more than a year ago, more than a half-dozen intrepid art dealers proved that the high-priced mega-mall known as the Chelsea art district was more hospitable and affordable than many thought. Colonizing a series of grungy loading docks on the north side of West 27th Street (in an immense building that had once been home to The Tunnel nightclub), these galleries carved out small, comfy ground-floor spaces. For fans of these galleries, like me, a first flush of excitement about these dealers vying for greater visibility was soon followed by the realization that each of these galleries had to now reinforce and define their pre-existing identities so as avoid the too-easy, potentially deadly rubric, 27th Street Galleries. Happily, this is happening. Watching the ups and downs of this process is getting exciting.

Picking one of these galleries at random, rather than by pecking order, consider the current OK show at Foxy Production, a gallery fast confirming that it has an eye for notably original artists like Sterling Ruby, Chris Moukarbel, Ester Partegas, Michael Bell-Smith, and the collective known as Paper Rad, among others. “Networked Nature,” the nicely weird, somewhat generic group exhibition now on view was curated by Rhizome, a collective that claims the exhibition “explores the representation of nature though the perspective of networked culture.”

Although that sounds vague and tautological to me, the show still manages to intrigue. Among the standouts, there’s the inflating-deflating starfish ceiling sculpture (a bit too reminiscent of Sarah Sze) by the nevertheless very talented Shih Chieh Huang; “Photosynthesis Robot,” two houseplants riding atop a cart, by the collective known as Futurefarmers, who say the piece is a “possible perpetual motion machine driven by phototropism.” Also nice is Gail Wright’s time-lapse video of a dyed slime mold, as well as the so-called “self-contained survival capsules for living plants” by Phillip Ross. Then there’s Steven Vitello’s houseplant with little speakers. Listen carefully and you’ll discern snippets of that frightening exchange accidentally recorded at a recent conference of world leaders in which our president—interrupting Tony Blair’s sober attempts to discuss the war between Israel and Lebanon—needles the British prime minister about whether or not he liked the sweater he sent him for Christmas. Now that’s weird nature.

Networked Nature, at Foxy Production, 617 West 27th Street. Through February 18

A little more than a year ago, more than a half-dozen intrepid art dealers proved that the high-priced mega-mall known as the Chelsea art district was more hospitable and affordable than many thought. Colonizing a series of grungy loading docks on the north side of West 27th Street (in an immense building that had once been home to The Tunnel nightclub), these galleries carved out small, comfy ground-floor spaces. For fans of these galleries, like me, a first flush of excitement about these dealers vying for greater visibility was soon followed by the realization that each of these galleries had to now reinforce and define their pre-existing identities so as avoid the too-easy, potentially deadly rubric, 27th Street Galleries. Happily, this is happening. Watching the ups and downs of this process is getting exciting.

Picking one of these galleries at random, rather than by pecking order, consider the current OK show at Foxy Production, a gallery fast confirming that it has an eye for notably original artists like Sterling Ruby, Chris Moukarbel, Ester Partegas, Michael Bell-Smith, and the collective known as Paper Rad, among others. “Networked Nature,” the nicely weird, somewhat generic group exhibition now on view was curated by Rhizome, a collective that claims the exhibition “explores the representation of nature though the perspective of networked culture.”

Although that sounds vague and tautological to me, the show still manages to intrigue. Among the standouts, there’s the inflating-deflating starfish ceiling sculpture (a bit too reminiscent of Sarah Sze) by the nevertheless very talented Shih Chieh Huang; “Photosynthesis Robot,” two houseplants riding atop a cart, by the collective known as Futurefarmers, who say the piece is a “possible perpetual motion machine driven by phototropism.” Also nice is Gail Wright’s time-lapse video of a dyed slime mold, as well as the so-called “self-contained survival capsules for living plants” by Phillip Ross. Then there’s Steven Vitello’s houseplant with little speakers. Listen carefully and you’ll discern snippets of that frightening exchange accidentally recorded at a recent conference of world leaders in which our president—interrupting Tony Blair’s sober attempts to discuss the war between Israel and Lebanon—needles the British prime minister about whether or not he liked the sweater he sent him for Christmas. Now that’s weird nature.

We tend to forget how endlessly odd it is, but art is perhaps the most radical and radically weird way yet devised to imagine and depict our inner and outer worlds. Of this odd visualizing mechanism, no sub-category may be odder or more fantastical than art that posits an encyclopedic, grandiose, or otherwise complete cosmological system or world outlook. Once upon a time when I made art, I was working on an elaborate 25-year project involving abstract-symbolic-diagrammatic drawings and altarpieces based on the 100 cantos of Dante’s Divine Comedy, one canto at a time, 100 works per canto. The cuckoo goal of this endeavor was to reach Dante’s “Paradise” after going through his “Inferno” and “Purgatory.” I imagined the final cantos would be the sounds of bells and chimes. The project foundered, of course, when I got as far as the fourth canto of the Inferno, moved to New York, entered by own inferno, and stopped being an artist for good.

The after-effect of this close encounter of the cosmographic kind is that I’m still irresistibly drawn to things like Tibetan mandalas, Tantric manuscripts, esoteric illustrations of the cabala, depictions of Rosicrucian world orders, and diagrams of any phantasmagoric system. I love images of the Garden of Eden, Kingdom Come, paradises lost and found, journeys to the bottom of the sea, the center of the earth, and the underworld, as well as Henry Darger’s sprawling universe, Adolf Wölfli’s roiling world, Joseph Beuys’s blackboard drawings, metaphysicians like Robert Fludd and Athanasius Kircher, and the art of Brueghel, Bosch, and Piranesi. Then there are those contemporary artists developing their own visual cosmos like Paul Laffoley, Lane Twitchell, Alice Aycock, Dennis Oppenheim, Barry Le Va, Mel Bochner, Agnes Denes, Will Insley, Beth Campbell, Kim Jones, Douglas Blau, Pedro Barbeito, Danica Phelps, and Benjamin Edwards. Matthew Barney fits this category not because he’s the “greatest artist of his generation,” as he’s often called, but because he’s a mystic trying to climb his own inner cathedral.

“Cosmologies,” at James Cohan Gallery, is a playground of inner-cathedrals, a walk-through compendium of impinging universes, totalizing visions, and demented imaginings. With more than 60 objects, the show veers wildly off course and leaves a lot out (including all the above-mentioned contemporary artists). Yet, “Cosmologies” moves across multiple cultures, continents, and times, from 10th-century Native American ritual vessels to Dawn Clements’s ball-point pen drawing on one 10-foot circular piece of paper recording five years worth of soap-opera watching. As flawed as “Cosmologies” is, if it were up for four months it would still be worth visiting for one of treasure or another.

The best works in “Cosmologies” are the Indian, Tibetan, and Mongolian spiritual and medicinal diagrams. Splitting the difference between these realms is a 19
th-century geometric Jain “Gyanbazi,” or “Snakes and Ladders” diagram, a game board in a grid configuration with snakes and slides leading from one tier to another, taking the viewer on a metaphysical journey closer to nirvana or deeper into the endless cycle of being reborn. Across the room is a riveting little pastel-colored 19th-century Mongolian medical mandala in which a flayed man in the shape of a turtle has genitals serving as a wiggly tail. Inside his body are skulls, faces, and fire. His spiral configuration calls to mind some cosmic yoni or a prototype of Robert Smithson’s “Spiral Jetty.”

Speaking of which, there’s Smithson’s wonderful photograph-and-text “Urination Map” showing how he peed in five places in a New York state park corresponding to the coordinates of the constellation Hydra. This kind of I-am- the-Universe big-thinking is endemic to this subgenre. Another enticing example of this galaxy-in-a-grain-of-sand thinking is Ward Shelley’s flow chart depicting all the art leading up to and deriving from Carolee Schneeman’s landmark 1975 performance, Interior Scroll, in which the then 36-year-old artist stood naked on a table, her body slathered in mud, slowly extracting a paper scroll from her vagina while reading aloud from it. As Schneeman later recalled, “I thought of the vagina physically, conceptually, as a sculptural form, an architectural referent, the sources of sacred knowledge, ecstasy, the birth passage, and transformation.” Shelley’s chart correctly lists Duchamp, Brecht, and Artaud as antecedents and Karen Finley, Annie Sprinkle, and Janine Antoni as descendents. Also in the small-is-large category is Kamrooz Aram’s lovely ink-on paper depiction of a Rastafarian exhaling a marvelous claret-colored cloud of breath that is a world unto itself.

For the sardonic-fantastic side of all this don’t miss Ad Reinhardt’s “Portrait of the Artist as a Young Mandala,” a chart with categories such as artist as shaman, social worker, war-God, traveling divine-spark salesman, black sheep, noble-savage, Doodle-Kaboodle, and Poetartcrrritic. In the end, this returns us to the idea that however odd art is, it still excels at depicting things that feel like they’re only one tiny tip of a million possible icebergs.


Into the Fray

For a little more than two years, Moti Hasson Gallery has operated out of a boxy second-floor space in a non-descript building at the fringes of the Chelsea art world, on West 38th Street. Despite mounting good shows, the gallery stayed under the art world’s radar. Now, like other galleries that have had to come to terms with the primacy of the New York art world’s herd-instinct, the gallery has moved into a slick ground-floor space in the belly of the Chelsea beast on West 25th Street. If “Beyond the Pale,” the gallery’s inaugural exhibition here, is any gauge, the fringe’s loss is Chelsea’s gain.

This better-than-average group show of eight young artists, several of whom are still in graduate school, was curated by the gallery’s two directors, Candice Madey and Tairone Bastien. The exhibition identifies artists who, to one degree or another, either deploy systems of material dispersion or create art that is structured and ordered without being overtly systematic.

Tommy Hartung’s visually rich video depicts tracking shots and close-ups of scrap metal, concrete blocks, circuitry, orange peels, and other detritus. It turns into a fascinating microscopic journey of what feels like another world or the Terminator’s mainframe. Xylor Jane, one of the better under-known artists out there, makes grid paintings that are Yayoi Kusama and Alfred Jensen crossed with a prisoner marking time on a jail cell wall. These works are filled with daubs, glitches, and flashes of weird consciousness.

Kerstin Brätsch’s intriguing New York debut at Derek Eller Gallery a couple of summers ago consisted of a series of prismatic paintings of faces or spirit guides. Here, she installs a large diamond configuration of black-and-white Xeroxes of nothing. Over these she has mounted her painted faces, making this work oscillate between the coolly conceptual and a talismanic object.

In addition to good works by Shinique Smith, who makes sculptures out of old clothes, and Clifford Owens, who has re-created performance pieces by Benjamin Patterson, “the only African-American member of the Fluxus group,” there’s the poignant video by Uri Aran. A combination of the local news, a Caravaggio painting, and cry for help, this video depicts New York construction workers at night in the freezing cold. A man stands in front of them pretending to be a newscaster while a voiceover has Aran reading a love letter. The effect, like the show itself, is fairly intense.

For a little more than two years, Moti Hasson Gallery has operated out of a boxy second-floor space in a non-descript building at the fringes of the Chelsea art world, on West 38th Street. Despite mounting good shows, the gallery stayed under the art world’s radar. Now, like other galleries that have had to come to terms with the primacy of the New York art world’s herd-instinct, the gallery has moved into a slick ground-floor space in the belly of the Chelsea beast on West 25th Street. If “Beyond the Pale,” the gallery’s inaugural exhibition here, is any gauge, the fringe’s loss is Chelsea’s gain.

This better-than-average group show of eight young artists, several of whom are still in graduate school, was curated by the gallery’s two directors, Candice Madey and Tairone Bastien. The exhibition identifies artists who, to one degree or another, either deploy systems of material dispersion or create art that is structured and ordered without being overtly systematic.

Tommy Hartung’s visually rich video depicts tracking shots and close-ups of scrap metal, concrete blocks, circuitry, orange peels, and other detritus. It turns into a fascinating microscopic journey of what feels like another world or the Terminator’s mainframe. Xylor Jane, one of the better under-known artists out there, makes grid paintings that are Yayoi Kusama and Alfred Jensen crossed with a prisoner marking time on a jail cell wall. These works are filled with daubs, glitches, and flashes of weird consciousness.

Kerstin Brätsch’s intriguing New York debut at Derek Eller Gallery a couple of summers ago consisted of a series of prismatic paintings of faces or spirit guides. Here, she installs a large diamond configuration of black-and-white Xeroxes of nothing. Over these she has mounted her painted faces, making this work oscillate between the coolly conceptual and a talismanic object.

In addition to good works by Shinique Smith, who makes sculptures out of old clothes, and Clifford Owens, who has re-created performance pieces by Benjamin Patterson, “the only African-American member of the Fluxus group,” there’s the poignant video by Uri Aran. A combination of the local news, a Caravaggio painting, and cry for help, this video depicts New York construction workers at night in the freezing cold. A man stands in front of them pretending to be a newscaster while a voiceover has Aran reading a love letter. The effect, like the show itself, is fairly intense.

Painter Charline Von Heyl recently described Americans’ disconnect between the personal and political this way: “While almost everything in the outer world feels messed-up, our inner lives aren’t altogether messed-up.” The current art world, awash in money and success, is shot through with a similar disconnect.

To some, the art market is a self-help movement, a private consumer vortex of dreams, a cash-addled image-addicted drug that makes consumers prowl art capitals for the next paradigm shift. This set seeks out art that looks like things they already know: anything resembling Warhol, Richter, Koons, Tuymans, Prince, and Wool could be good; any male painter in his thirties could be great. To others, the market is just a jolly popularity contest, or as New York Times reporter David Carr put it about having his own blog, it’s like “a large yellow Labrador: friendly, fun, not all that bright, but constantly demanding your attention.”

For many, the art market is a communal version of the Primal Scene—a sexed-up site that offers a peek into the bedroom of the creative act. Art advisers and collectors now treat art fairs and auctions like Warhol’s Factory: Places to flaunt junkie-like behavior while hoping one’s creative potential might bloom. In this global circus, mega-collectors like Charles Saatchi and Francois Pinault are the art world’s P.T. Barnums: showmen who have become part of the show—moguls who understand that the market is a medium that can be manipulated.

Once upon a time, the market and the scene (clubiness, chicanery, and profligacy notwithstanding) were joined and reflected social, political, and sexual change. Now the market is only in service of itself. The market is a perfect storm of hocus-pocus, spin, and speculation, a combination slave market, trading floor, disco, theater, and brothel where an insular ever-growing caste enacts rituals in which the codes of consumption and peerage are manipulated in plain sight.

Is the art market making us stupid? Or are we making it stupid? Consider the lame-brained claim made by Sotheby’s worldwide head of contemporary art, Tobias Meyer, who recently effused “The best art is the most expensive because the market is so smart.” This is exactly wrong. The market isn’t “smart;” it’s like a camera—so dumb it’ll believe anything you put in front of it. Essentially, the art market is a self-replicating organism that, when it tracks one artist’s work selling well, craves more work by the same artist. Although everyone says the market is “about quality,” the market merely assigns values, fetishizes desire, charts hits, and creates ambience. These days the market is also too good to be true.

Still, the slap-happy assertions keep coming. Last season, Amy Cappellazzo, international co-head of Christie’s post-war and contemporary art, crowed that auction houses were “the big-box retailers putting the mom-and-pops out of business.” Then she gushed of her clients, “After you have a fourth home and a G5 jet, what else is there?” After wondering, “What’s a G5 jet?”, you may well ask how the current super-heated art market is changing the ways we see and think about art.

The market is now so pervasive that it is simply a
condition—as much a part of the art world as galleries and museums. Even if you’re not making money—as is the case with most of us—that’s your relationship to the market. To say you won’t participate in the market is like saying you refuse to breathe the air because it’s polluted.

The current market feeds the bullshit machine, provides cover for a lot of vacuous behavior, revs us up while wearing us down, breeds complacency, and is so invasive that it forces artists to regularly consider issues of celebrity, status, and money in their studios. Yet, it also allows more artists to make more money without having to work full-time soul-crushing jobs and provides most of us with what Mel Brooks called “our phony-baloney jobs.” Last December, more than 400 New York art dealers representing more than 5,000 artists paid for booths in one art fair or another in Miami to participate in this market. Everyone is trying the best they can.
For critics to demonize the entire art world, then, as somehow unethical and crass seems self-righteous, cynical, and hypocritical.

Much confusion stems from there being no new, cogent Theory of the Market, no philosophy that addresses the ways in which the ongoing feeding frenzy is affecting the production, presentation, and reception of art. Nothing we say about the market adds up, partly because “the market” isn’t really an autonomous subject. It’s a diversionary tactic—essentially, a blend of economics, history, psychology, stagecraft, and lifestyle; an unregulated field of commerce governed by desire, luck, stupidity, cupidity, personal connections, connoisseurship, intelligence, insecurity, and whatever.

Yet we can’t ignore the market or just lay back and drink the Kool-Aid. Maybe we should be asking questions such as: Are we sometimes liking things because we know the market likes them or are we really liking them? Do people really believe the kitschy pictures of naked girls with pussy cats by German painter Martin Eder are any good or are buyers simply jumping on the bandwagon because his prices have reached $500,000? When we learn that a newish painting by the second-rate latter-day Neo-Expressionist Marlene Dumas sold for over three million dollars, does it alter how we think of her work? Does it alter the ways magazine editors or curators think about it? One of the organizers of Dumas’s upcoming MOMA exhibition, the otherwise excellent Connie Butler, recently responded to one of my public hissy fits about the overestimation of this artist by saying, “Dumas has been making portraits of terrorists,” as if to suggest that certain subject matter exempts art from criticism. In fact, this subject matter is not only predictable and generic, and in that sense utterly conservative, its perfect fodder for a culture in disconnect. It’s wonderful that mediocre women artists now command the same astronomical prices for their art that mediocre male artists always have. But do artists who don’t sell for high prices have less of a chance to ever make money? Are Vito Acconci and Adrian Piper fated to forever being ‘Lifestyles of the Poor and Famous’ artists? If you’re unknown and over 35 do you have a shot? In this era of the 30-month career, what happened to the idea of the 30-year career?

In the 1970s, conceptualist Joseph Kosuth said, “The only people who care about art are artists.” That’s changed. But is the art world of greater interest to people outside of it because art has become more interesting or because art is a hot property? Is the market creating a competitive atmosphere that drives artists to produce better work or is it mainly fostering empty product?

If there’s a silver lining to this golden cloud it’s that despite how professional and “smart” it is made out to be, the market is still inherently blinkered, erratic, and insecure. As such it is simultaneously vulnerable and a force of chaos. As almost everyone in the art world knows, chaos is usually good for art. At the end of the day art still has a private inside and a public outside. It still exudes an alchemical otherness. In our studios and before artworks we still experience moments of authentic serenity, passion, and meaningfulness—places on the edge of language that the market can’t strip away. In this imperfect realm we can intuit the elemental feeling that sometimes, just by making or looking at art, we might glimpse the full range of human possibilities. The market is art minus otherness. The rest is gossip.

Two current New York museum shows, one about events between Mexico and France in the mid-19th century, the other about Germany in the early 20th century, provide uncanny political and aesthetic windows onto our current moment. Each exhibition comes on like a fever dream. The first shows a single artist, Edouard Manet, striding into a future that bumps directly against the present. The other captures a group of German artists desperately reaching into the stylistic past to picture humanity in a state of utter depravity and pain. Each exhibition treats history as a kind of tragedy—a downward spiral that many saw unwinding but could not circumvent.

MOMA’s compact “Manet and the Execution of Maximilian” is similar to the “Manet: The Execution of Maximilian” show seen at the National Gallery in London in 1992. As organized by MOMA’s John Elderfield, it demonstrates how much difference one artist can make to art history and that world leaders sometimes enter history by committing colossal blunders. The George Bush in this sad scenario was France’s Emperor Louis Napoleon Bonaparte, who forcibly installed Austria’s Archduke Ferdinand Maximilian as emperor of Mexico in 1864. The well-meaning Maximilian was executed by a Mexican firing squad three years later on June 19, 1867. Manet began painting the event the following month. The subject was so radioactive in Paris, however — the execution dealt the power and prestige of France’s empire such an irreparable blow that it collapsed in 1870 — that none of Manet’s pictures were exhibited in France in his lifetime.

The one-room MOMA exhibition contains a plethora of paraphernalia, much of it macabre, including photos of the firing squad standing at attention immediately after the event, Maximilian in his coffin, his bloody shirt, and more. The main attractions, however, are Manet’s three large pictures of the instant of the execution, painted between 1867 and 1869. The earliest and least compelling is a murky, quasi-Romantic image in which everything is indistinct. If this were the only painting of this subject there’d be no MOMA exhibition.

The show makes its points, however, in the two remaining paintings, which are not only crystal clear, they’re crystal balls. In them you can see Manet seeing in a way that maybe no one ever had ever seen before. In these two grand works—the second of which was cut up by his family, but reassembled later by Degas—Manet perceives the world as if he were a camera, almost without judgment or thought. He is “the machine” Warhol said he wanted to be. Everything in the paintings is depicted dispassionately, in parts, with no overall compositional unity or conventional narrative sequencing. You see shots fired, the victims still alive, a nearby soldier cocking his rifle, and spectators in conversation. Both of these paintings pushed art history into a whole new pictorial realm, serving as the genesis for a type of exploded vision that led directly to Cezanne’s further atomizing the things of the world, then to Picasso, Braque, Malevich, and Mondrian, who blew things apart for good.

The Met’s great “Glitter and Doom: German Portraits from the 1920s,” brilliantly organized by curator Sabine Rewald, doesn’t give us a creation story. Instead this last-stop- before-Armageddon -exhibition captures what people and countries look like the moment before they turn to ash. We see the star-crossed denizens of the horror-show known as “between-the-wars-Germany,” a done-for generation of doctors, prostitutes, businessmen, goons, geeks, industrialists, addicts, and assorted ladies, gentlemen, and gargoyles. The lurking shadow of a certain young Austrian corporal is ever in the wings. Those pictured radiate the aura of the catastrophes they suffered in World War I and the coup de grace they were irretrievably bound for in World War II.

“Glitter and Doom” establishes that Max Beckman and Otto Dix, along with George Grosz and others, were so hardwired to record degradation, pain, and bitterness, that they fashioned a sort of anti-modern Teutonic Cubism. Dix’s harrowing, hysterical, infinitely detailed pictures are resurrections of the Northern Renaissance crossed with a trauma center. Dix said that “art is an exorcism.” That shows in his work. “Lady with Mink and Veil,” his portrait of a ravaged 70-year-old prostitute, is one of the great paintings of abasement, humiliation, and hopelessness of the 20
th century. For his part, Grosz, who once said, “I thought war would never end, and perhaps it never did,” depicts German society as seen through the lens of a pig—or perhaps it was pigs through eyes of society. As for Beckman, he quite simply came closer to making paintings that have the pure presence of sculpture and cannonballs as anyone.

For a tangy dessert, the Met serves up one of the great pervert painters in art history. Like Beckman and Co., Christian Schad’s work was not as formally inventive as the Cubism or Suprematism . As with the others in “Glitter and Doom,” Schad worked in a figurative style. Yet, his hyper-realistic, ultra-racy paintings of women masturbating, transvestites in nightclubs, female genitalia rendered as if by Hannibal Lecter, couples in post-coital torpors, and one woman performing cunnilingus on another while cats sniff a nearby strap-on dildo, suggest the artist was in a kind of demonic state of decadent grace. Wielding old-masterish skill, Schad combined a dandy’s sensibility with a sex-fiend’s focus and jadedness. He was a mystic of sex, a connoisseur and scientist of it. Yet, sex, like the struggle for existence depicted by all the artists in “Glitter and Doom,” has seldom looked as glum or repellent.


Pulp Friction

The fifteen hard-boiled but glamorous little gouaches by Dike Blair—all of personal or mundane items like cigarette packs, ashtrays, cola cans, books, and tapes set in blank backgrounds or in what look to be divey coffee shops— exude what Lillian Hellman, speaking of Dashiell Hammett, called “an angry privacy.” Blair works with a draftsman’s attention to fact, a botanist’s eye for type, and a detective’s feel for telling clues. This places these gouaches, all painted between 1988 and 1997, in a no-man’s land between illustration, photography, and forensic science. Blair created a knotty sub-genre, a sort of visual split-infinity of style that related to artists like Richard Prince, David Robbins, and Vija Celmins.

Whatever it is, while the objects Blair depicts are everyday and lackluster, they also hold up weird mirrors to the inner-artist’s-life, things painters might look at while they’re fretting, brooding, or worrying about painting, or stare at in in-between moments. This gives Blair’s work a pulp-fiction, just-the-facts Zen-like aura: Everything is here and real, yet also telekinetic and illusory.

The fifteen hard-boiled but glamorous little gouaches by Dike Blair—all of personal or mundane items like cigarette packs, ashtrays, cola cans, books, and tapes set in blank backgrounds or in what look to be divey coffee shops—exude what Lillian Hellman, speaking of Dashiell Hammett, called “an angry privacy.” Blair works with a draftsman’s attention to fact, a botanist’s eye for type, and a detective’s feel for telling clues. This places these gouaches, all painted between 1988 and 1997, in a no-man’s land between illustration, photography, and forensic science. Blair created a knotty sub-genre, a sort of visual split-infinity of style that related to artists like Richard Prince, David Robbins, and Vija Celmins.

Whatever it is, while the objects Blair depicts are everyday and lackluster, they also hold up weird mirrors to the inner-artist’s-life, things painters might look at while they’re fretting, brooding, or worrying about painting, or stare at in in-between moments. This gives Blair’s work a pulp-fiction, just-the-facts Zen-like aura: Everything is here and real, yet also telekinetic and illusory.
