Unlike works of art that you hear about but never actually see, Douglas Gordon’s “24-Hour Psycho”, for example, Durant’s “Proposal” is more than just an idea—it’s almost tear-jerking.
) for weirder, more visionary ones like Verne Dawson, Ricci Albenda, Dana Schutz, Trisha Donnelly, Anna Gaskell, Lisa Ruyter, Robert Melee, Benjamin Butler, Jonathan Horowitz, Guy Richards Smit, Steve DiBenedetto, Jon Kessler and Paul Chan, or (even though I’m not a fan of all of them) Pierre Huyghe, Takashi Murakami, William Kentridge, Rudolf Stingel, Urs Fisher, Jim Lambie, Vanessa Beecroft, Douglas Gordon, Ugo Rondinoni and Francis Alÿs—all of whom live part-time in the United States.
The artist’s name is Douglas Gordon.
Now that the museum has fired 90 people and postponed or canceled the Kasimir Malevich, Douglas Gordon, and Matthew Barney surveys (Barney’s would have opened next week), the Guggenheim looks a lot less “visionary” and a lot more dubious, with each branch set up to support another branch.
More than a metaphor and reminiscent of through a looking glass, Douglas Gordon’s 1999 Taxi Driver projection, Psi Girls is like a good ghost story—rousing, if limited.
Together they provide a chance to get a fuller view of this up and down artist, and to see which is the real Douglas Gordon.
So unselfconscious is his use of video that he could be called a latter-day landscape painter, although his sense of craft and cultural slippage, and his feel for how his medium can render memories, connects him to artists like Jane & Louise Wilson, Douglas Gordon, Keith Edmier, Jorge Pardo, and Gabriel Orozco.
I went to RISD, and when I was there, I realized that so many of my favorite artists — Douglas Gordon, Paul McCarthy, Cindy Sherman — were, a lot of the time, making work that was incorporating aspects of the film world.
Nearly all the other artists are usual suspects from the ­aesthetic-economic auction complex, blue-chippers like Damien Hirst, Takashi Murakami, Jeff Koons, Richard Prince, John Currin, Douglas Gordon, Anselm Kiefer, and Francesco Vezzoli.
(Maybe we’ll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mike Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Monk, etc.
Tiravanija’s comfy video lounge, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster’s sonic rain forest, Douglas Gordon’s wall texts, Liam Gillick’s S-shaped benches, Philippe Parreno’s lighted marquee, and Angela Bulloch’s LED night sky are all okay.
(Maybe we'll ask all artists who like charts and systems to design this; William Powhida, Danica Phelps, Ward Shelley, Jim Torok, Mika Rottenberg, Lane Twitchell, Sean Landers, Adrian Piper, Raymond Pettibon, Douglas Gordon, Barry McGee, Fiona Banner, Christopher Knowles, Julie Mehretu, Benjamin Edwards, Loren Munk, etc.
Tiravanija’s comfy video lounge, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster’s sonic rain forest, Douglas Gordon’s wall texts, Liam Gillick’s S-shaped benches, Philippe Parreno’s lighted marquee and Angela Bulloch’s LED night sky are all okay.
Unlike works of art that you hear about but never actually see, Douglas Gordon's 24-Hour Psycho, for example, Durant's "Proposal" is more than just an idea -- it's almost tear-jerking.
