This useful term, coined in the mid 1990s by the French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud, was meant to describe the then groundbreaking practices of artists like Rirkrit Tiravanija, Philippe Parreno, Pierre Huyghe, Liam Gillick, Vanessa Beecroft, and others whose work often involved what Bourriaud called “connectivity” and “interactivity”.
As an artist he’s an odd combination of charismatic, bashful, renegade, pied piper, and recluse—a sort of David Hammons by way of Rirkrit Tiravanija.
There’s Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
The subgenre known as “the exhibition space as art” stretches from Duchamp’s Mile of String and Schwitters’s Merzbau, through Dali, Kienholz, Christo, Kaprow, Samaras, and Segal, goes crazy with Dieter Roth and “Grandmaster” Martin Kippenberger, and crests with the almost all-boy band of Pardo, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Tobias Rehberger, Carsten Holler, and the fabulous Björk-like backup stylings of Lily van der Stokker—call them Rirkrit and the Family Tiravanija.
He showed artists like Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, Elizabeth Peyton, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and many others who have gone on to worldwide fame.
Rirkrit Tiravanija served free Thai food to visitors in museums and galleries.
1991Felix Gonzalez-Torres and Rirkrit Tiravanija make art so intimate you can eat it.
’” Felix Gonzalez-Torres and Rirkrit Tiravanija make art so intimate you can eat it.
It was in her space on Spring and Greene Streets, where she moved in 1989, early in the wave of good East Village gallerists like Pat Hearn and Colin de Land decamping to Soho, that Rirkrit Tiravanija staged his early cooking pieces.
The artist Rirkrit Tiravanija, whom I’ve discussed before, has long explored the rich terrain of giving things away for free, of making interactions with art and other people possible, and of sharing.
Part of it is that the Guggenheim simply can’t allow (for example) Rirkrit Tiravanija to set up one of his ad hoc kitchens and dish out curried vegetables for free, allowing the refuse to pile up.
There have been portraits of angel-faced male artists like Maurizio Cattelan and Rirkrit Tiravanija (to whom she was married for a time), and of course Andy Warhol.
The glossy back cover would permanently advertise Jorge Pardo, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Liam Gillick, Pierre Huyghe, and Philippe Parreno, all of whom seem perpetually to be on view.
For Rirkrit Tiravanija, art is what you eat.
Don't miss Rirkrit Tiravanija's paradigm-rocking tour de force of institutional critique, "Relational Aesthetics," the disruption of the chain of command, spatial politics and time-shifting.
In the early 1990s, Jason Rhoades combined the scatter art of Cady Noland, the formalism of Felix Gonzalez-Torres, the relational esthetics of Rirkrit Tiravanija and the complex narrative structures of Matthew Barney and cross-wired it with testosterone-driven topsy-turvy orgies of narrative, Ikea-gone-mad, and the Chicken Ranch come to life.
The glossy back cover would permanently advertise Jorge Pardo, Rirkrit Tiravanija, Liam Gillick, Pierre Huyghe and Philippe Parreno, all of whom seem perpetually to be on view.
This useful term, coined in the mid 1990s by the French art critic Nicolas Bourriaud, was meant to describe the then groundbreaking practices of artists like Rirkrit Tiravanija, Philippe Parreno, Pierre Huyghe, Liam Gillick, Vanessa Beecroft and others whose work often involved what Bourriaud called "connectivity" and "interactivity".
As an artist he's an odd combination of charismatic, bashful, renegade, pied piper and recluse -- a sort of David Hammons by way of Rirkrit Tiravanija.
There's Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
