Evidence that the Super Paradigm is waning can be glimpsed in the work of a pre-9-11 artist par excellence, Andreas Gursky, whose enormous, sleek images depicting our buzzing, border-to-border, air-conditioned essence made one feel the delirium of what George W.S. Trow called “the context of no context”.
“Architecture Hot and Cold,” organized by Terence Riley, chief curator of architecture and design, is corny, but its obsessive overcrowding of images of buildings by everyone from R. Buckminster Fuller and Andreas Gursky to Rem Koolhaas and Toba Khedoori is hysterical and invigorating—even if you can’t look at any one thing.
Thomas Ruff, Nudes noc09 2000Of the three German photographers who came to America’s attention in the late ’80s— Thomas Struth, Ruff himself, and Andreas Gursky (collectively known as Struffsky)—Ruff, 42, is the roughest.
a question might be “In 10 words or less: What’s the difference between the acclaimed German photographers—both known for their mammoth color pictures—Andreas Gursky and Thomas Struth?
Going head-to-head will be Anna Gaskell, Andreas Gursky, Thomas Struth, Adam Fuss, Uta Barth, Beat Streuli, Yasumasa Morimura, Sarah Charlesworth, John Coplans, Gregory Crewdson, Sally Mann, and Collier Schorr.
Unlike German photographer Andreas Gursky, who has struggled mightily and unevenly with this post-9/11 space, sometimes unable to not return to a 2001 time, Aitken continues to successfully to master this relevantly, effectively, and mesmerizingly.
Artists like Andreas Gursky, Thomas Struth, and Thomas Ruff (so ubiquitous in the 1990s that I collectively called them Struffsky; I got a nasty note from one of them), and Canadians like Jeff Wall and Rodney Graham, all took photography toward movies, billboards, storytelling, history painting, and high-production values.
In the months before September 11, 2001, in the long stupor following George W. Bush being named president by the Supreme Court, German Über-photographer Andreas Gursky — known for his totalizing pictures of atriums, raves, hotel lobbies, and trading floors — made a spectacular color photograph of a Los Angeles big-box store.
Among many notable artists who exhibited very early in their careers here and who were introduced to audiences by Spellman are Andreas Gursky, Thomas Ruff, Thomas Demand, Rodney Graham, Karen Kilimnik, Collier Schorr, Doug Aitken, Hans-Peter Feldmann, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster, Mike Nelson, Rob Pruitt and Jack Early, Jane and Louise Wilson, Maureen Gallace, John Dogg, and Richard Prince.
The German über-photographer Andreas Gursky was the perfect pre-9/11 artist.
