One morning I read about Jeff Koons’s 50th birthday party at Jeffrey Deitch’s with its “forty-one piece marching band and an escort of ponies” and caught myself simpering because I hadn’t been invited.
If that avatar of the new and often glitzy, Jeffrey Deitch, does what he says he’s going to do this September, and he’s been talking about it for a year, a branch of Deitch Projects—our own mini Barnum and Bailey meets Peggy Guggenheim—will open in a rented 4000-square-foot ground floor on North 11th Street in the heart of Williamsburg, not far from several of this neighborhood’s, and some of New York’s, coolest galleries.
With “Mozart on Television: New Painting From Germany,” Jeffrey Deitch fires a torpedo that roils the waters, then heads harmlessly out to sea.
“Tokyo Pop Underground” (Jeffrey Deitch; 9/14–11/2) This could be the Ur–Deitch show, a manga-and-more candyland, curated by Tokyo gallerist Shinji Nanzuka, that will once more underscore that the Japanese can’t help but be cooler than you.
I want to take a little bit more ownership of this, and so I started talking to Jeffrey Deitch about doing some sort of performance.
Some of these boldfaced names range relatively far afield: Miley Cyrus has gone big into sculpture (and was compared by art impresario Jeffrey Deitch to Mike Kelley), and last year, Jay Z took a page from Marina Abramovic’s performance act (full disclosure: I sort of fell for it).
Plagens says that a few years ago, ex–L.A. MoCA director and impresario Jeffrey Deitch told him that “museums needed young audiences and that what young audiences wanted to see is events, whether the events are fashion shows, rock concerts, or exhibition openings”.
From the perspective of many in L.A.’s tight-knit art world, the low-water mark was Jeffrey Deitch’s recently ended tenure.
It’s a teenage girl’s bedroom’s idea of romance crossed with Richard Prince’s Cowboy photographs, American Romanticism, Celestial Seasonings packages, shampoo commercials, Iranian music videos, Thomas Kinkaid, beer ads, Jeff Koons, The Onion, Lars von Trier, the House of Fendi, and Jeffrey Deitch and his own uncanny 1992 prophecy “The Freudian model of the psychological person is dissolving …  freed of the constraints of one’s past”.
After less than 48 months, following massive community objection to his appointment in the first place and nearly constant controversy, maverick art dealer Jeffrey Deitch has left his position as director of Los Angeles’ tremendous but dysfunctional Museum of Contemporary Art.
In fact, Jeffrey Deitch is too “weird” to be a museum director.
Or to bosses, like MoCA’s director, Jeffrey Deitch, who many believe is turning the museum into, as Gleason put it, “a celebrity-curated kunsthalle-style circus”.
(This, by the way, makes the fourth such coup, after Anne Philbin leaving the Drawing Center to become Director of the Hammer, Michael Govan departing Dia to work as Director of LACMA, and Jeffrey Deitch being named Director of LA MoCA.
Jeffrey Deitch is the Jeff Koons of art dealers.
Related: How Jeffrey Deitch’s MOCA Appointment Changes the Art World [NYM]Many say an art dealer running a museum is a “conflict of interest”.
Whatever happens, New York is going to miss the squirrelly circus master and semi-visionary known as Jeffrey Deitch.
In what is a game-changer and a hail-Mary pass that will likely be fretted about by many, the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art appears ready to name New York art dealer Jeffrey Deitch its new director, according to multiple art world sources.
Whatever  happens, New York is going to miss the squirrelly circus master and semi-visionary  known as Jeffrey Deitch.
