Other standouts included Dasha Shishkin, Jackie Saccoccio, Seth Price, Thomas Hirschhorn, Marilyn Minter, Josiah McElheny, Cheney Thompson, Wade Guyton, Aaron Young, Harrell Fletcher, Mark Grotjahn, and perhaps best of all, the exhibition by the living lord of chaos, Sigmar Polke.
I used to underestimate the optical juju in the paintings of Mark Grotjahn (pronounced Groat-john).
Good paintings are present, notably by Mark Grotjahn, Mark Bradford, Rudolf Stingel, and Marilyn Minter.
In yesterday’s paper she wrote an article about Mark Grotjahn being a trailblazer about exhibiting with many dealers, calling the shots, selling work out of the studio, and trying to sell to “collectors, not speculators” who will donate his works to museum.
I think Richard Prince and [the painter] Mark Grotjahn are great.
Mark Grotjahn (pronounced Groat-john) is widely recognized for his painting prowess.
Stella is the artist who launched 10,000 careers; artists as varied as Peter Halley, Sarah Morris, Ugo Rondinone, Matthew Ritchie, and Thomas Scheibitz, who have used Stella’s structures, compositional strategies, and specific colors, to Isa Genzken, Mark Grotjahn, Jessica Stockholder, Katharina Grosse, Steven Parrino, and countless others who’ve followed Stella into the expanded fields of painting.
See Nate Lowman, Urs Fischer, Joe Bradley, Mark Grotjahn, Dan Colen, Paul Chan, and many others who emerged about the same time.
I relish the ropy sluicing surfaces of Mark Grotjahn, but his great paintings seem more excellently old-school than newly atemporal.
Mark Grotjahn’s large new paintings abound with torrents of ropy impasto, laid down in thickets, cascading waves, and bundles that swell, braid around, or overlap one another.
Auction records were set for living artists like Mark Tansey, Urs Fischer, Cindy Sherman, Julie Mehretu, Cady Noland, and Mark Grotjahn.
Auction records were set for living artists like Mark Tansey, Urs Fischer, Cindy Sherman, Julie Mehretu, Cady Noland and Mark Grotjahn.
Good paintings are present, notably by Mark Grotjahn, Mark Bradford, Rudolf Stingel and Marilyn Minter.
