Aesthetically, Ben-Tor is a hair-raising fusion of Cindy Sherman, Kara Walker, Alex Bag, Kafka, the Yiddish theater, and Greek tragedy.
She crosses this with the way Louise Lawler’s photographs essentially say, “Look at the way ‘they’ hang ‘their’ art in ‘their’ museums,” then introduces the socially constructed sexual roles in Cindy Sherman’s “Film Stills”.
Closer to home, there were David Salle, Eric Fischl, and the lone lady, Cindy Sherman.
It’s like seeing strangers enact Cindy Sherman and Robert Mapplethorpe pictures.
The press release seems to allude to Cindy Sherman, noting that in the video Campbell assumes archetypal roles such as traveler, artist, office worker, and suburban housewife.
The photo of a sitting miss in shorts and blond pigtails looks uncannily like a Cindy Sherman (who also owns a Bartlett image).
Usual suspects like Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, and Francesco Clemente, in other words, share space with usual-unusual suspects like Ilya Kabakov, Jimmie Durham, Adrian Piper, and Krzysztof Wodiczko.
They took the heat and did the shows, popular or not: Eric Fischl, Cindy Sherman, Robert Mapplethorpe, Jean-Michel Basquiat.
Lee splices the dressing-up of Cindy Sherman with the snap-shotiness of Nan Goldin.
This motley, supposedly deconstructive group (including Cindy Sherman, Richard Prince, and Yasumasa Morimura) just falls flat.
So the art world thought it knew how to handle Mori: she was a latter-day Cindy Sherman, dressing up and going out, and these early images were like the “Film Stills” filtered through a different culture, a different generation, and a sillier, more self-deprecating sensibility.
If this is Cindy Sherman, it’s by way of MTV, Hollywood, Madison Avenue, and Zen Buddhism.
On top of all that, it helps to imagine Coombs as another kind of Cindy Sherman, always the focal point of his work.
Thus all the formal echoes of Rauschenberg and the dematerializing of the art object of post-minimalist sculpture; Jessica Stockholder and Cady Noland’s notions of object-based installation; and numerous references to Pictures artists like Gretchen Bender, Sherrie Levine, and Cindy Sherman.
Included in this gift are works by Jasper Johns, Lichtenstein, Warhol, Richter, Koons (the $65 million Rabbit), Cindy Sherman, Cy Twombly, Robert Rauschenberg, John Currin, Brice Marden, and many others.
I saw Richard Prince, Nan Goldin, Cindy Sherman, Barbara Gladstone, Gavin Brown, John Currin, James Nares, Duncan Hannah, Max Blagg, Clarissa Dalrymple, Bob Colacello, Edit DeAk, Walter Robinson, Lisa Rosen, Christopher Wool, Warhol personages, and O’Brien’s last muse and wife, Gina Nanni.
Artists like Barbara Kruger, Louise Lawler, Laurie Simmons, and Cindy Sherman, as well as Richard Prince and many others, were warriors who used cameras but whose art had little to do with street or landscape photography, or overt journalism.
Now I see Barney as a mystic bridge between the ambition, absurdity, first-person identity politics, and pseudo-autobiographical Arabian Nights fiction of 1980s artists like Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, Anselm Kiefer, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Martin Kippenberger and the populism, love of beauty, craft, dexterity with scales large and small, unusual materials, and grand activism of 1990s artists like Kara Walker, Pipilotti Rist, Olafur Eliasson, Thomas Hirschhorn, later Robert Gober, and even Richard Serra — who actually appeared in one of Barney’s films.
Artists like Cindy Sherman, Barbara Kruger, Richard Prince, Keith Haring, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, and Anselm Kiefer were ascendant.
Warhol’s swishiness was revolutionary; so was Lynda Benglis posing naked with a double-headed dildo and Cindy Sherman disappearing into her film stills.
Cindy Sherman never directed another film.
But I think similar to what happened with the Cindy Sherman show — hosting the Oscars is a whole different thing than going onto a soap opera.
Let’s talk about that Cindy Sherman show.
I went to RISD, and when I was there, I realized that so many of my favorite artists — Douglas Gordon, Paul McCarthy, Cindy Sherman — were, a lot of the time, making work that was incorporating aspects of the film world.
Is that where the Cindy Sherman film stills come in?
You’re dealing with Cindy Sherman, of all people.
Nobody says, well, I wonder who Cindy Sherman is sleeping with.
When I did the Cindy Sherman show, Harmony said, basically, the exact same thing that you said to me.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Among other early outstanding works on view is a great light piece by Dan Flavin — one from his famous Monument for V. Tatlin series from 1969 — and excellent photographs by Robert Adams, Diane Arbus, Lee Friedlander, Larry Clark, and Cindy Sherman, including five early Filmstills.
If you’re still cynically thinking, Yeah, but they’re still just more rich people buying famous art, as much as I loathe reducing art to prices, they paid $50 for their first Cindy Sherman, $7,500 for their first Christopher Wool, and $5,600 for their first Jeff Koons, a vacuum-cleaner sculpture they saw in the same Maiden Lane studio I saw it in — and still regret not keeping the ballpoint-pen drawing of an inflatable bunny he drew for me during that visit.
In an essay accompanying the recent catalogue, Fame Is the Name of the Game …, the artist Cindy Sherman calls the work “an exhaustive study of what it is to be a woman”.
Published in Katherina Fritsch (Museum für Gegenwartskunst, Basel; San Francisco MOMA, 1996)• Mark Mynsk, Conditioning for Wrestling: The Iowa Way (1982), page 207• Time Out (Weekly)♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Cindy Sherman, artist• Mad magazines• Any old magazines (ten years or older)• Advertisements in tabloid magazines• Any newspapers♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Vito Acconci, artist• Anthony Greenbank, Everyman’s Guide to Staying Alive and Handling Emergencies in the City, the Suburbs, and the Wild Lands Beyond (HarperCollins, 1968)Read yourself into situations of crisis and start working from there.
“I was more interested in Cindy Sherman and Richard Prince [than] East Village angst and post-AbEx expressionism — artists like David Salle and Julian Schnabel.
Art critic Roberta Smith (my wife) wrote a damning review of James Franco’s 65 silly self-obsessed demi-drag re-creations of Cindy Sherman’s 1977-80 “Film Stills,” now being shown at Pace as “New Film Stills”.
Either way, the crux of the issue was touched on by the sneaky-brilliant Cindy Sherman herself.
Compositionally and psychologically, they are Cindy Sherman unveiling her many selves, by way of Malick Sidibé, the Malian photographer who recorded the people around him posed against makeshift portable backdrops, and Morton Bartlett, who between 1936 and 1963 made anatomically correct dolls of pubescent girls, sewed wardrobes, and photographed them in either Shirley Temple poses or ballerinas.
Many will point to Cindy Sherman.
Cindy Sherman is great, but the only reason she’s here (other than the fact that dull curators can’t do a show without her) is that she’s made a few pictures where she looks like a movie star, and Andy liked those sorts of people too.
This time, at least, he has nice things to say about Cindy Sherman and Kara Walker.
Cindy Sherman not only does that, she’s given herself up entirely to the mission.
Today, I think of Cindy Sherman as an artist who only gets better.
Carroll Dunham worked for Dorothea Rockburne           Barnaby Furnas worked for Carroll Dunham           Christopher Wool worked for Joel Shapiro           Josh Smith worked for Christopher Wool           Annette Lemieux worked for David Salle           Jacob Kassay worked for Josh Smith           Jackie Saccoccio worked for Christopher Wool           Alexander Ross worked for Julian Lethbridge           Sarah Morris worked for Jeff Koons           Jennifer Rubell worked for Koons           Tony Matelli worked for Koons           Carl Fudge worked for David Reed           Matthew Weinstein worked for Ross Bleckner           Darren Bader worked for Urs Fischer            Robb Pruitt worked for Richard Artschwager            Daphne Fitzpatrick worked for Robert Gober           Robert Gober worked for Jennifer Bartlett           Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober           Margaret Lee worked for Cindy Sherman           Rirkrit Tiravanija worked for Gretchen Bender           Udomsak Krisanamis worked for Rirkrit Tiravanija           Brice Marden worked for Robert Rauschenberg           Dorothea Rockburne worked for Robert Rauschenberg            Matt Magee worked for Robert Rauschenberg           Elizabeth Peyton worked for Ronald Jones           Haroon Mirza worked for Jeremy Deller           Matt Keegan worked for Elizabeth Peyton           Gabriel Orozco worked for Antony Gormley           Alexis Rockman worked for Ross Bleckner           Mark Handforth worked for Martin Kippenberg           Jutta Koether worked for Martin Kippenberger           Susan Jennings worked for Cindy Sherman           Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter           Ronnie Cutrone worked for Andy Warhol           George Condo worked for Andy Warhol           Elyn Zimmerman worked for James Turrell.
Auction records were set for living artists like Mark Tansey, Urs Fischer, Cindy Sherman, Julie Mehretu, Cady Noland, and Mark Grotjahn.
The approach is hugely influential, setting the precedent for interesting artists like Cindy Sherman and David Salle.
This brought to mind what artist Cindy Sherman said about process being more interesting than product: “I get more out of my art by making [it] than I do from seeing it”.
Pollock, Rauschenberg, and Nan Goldin are drunk; Warhol, Johns, and Cindy Sherman are stoned.
It makes Jack Goldstein’s footage of the roaring MGM lion someone’s take (and not necessarily his) on what the MGM lion stands for; Richard Prince’s Marlboro men went from familiar and bland to dangerous and funny; Cindy Sherman’s dressing up like a model became as strange as dressing up like a model really is.
Cindy Sherman’s is the face that launched a thousand theories.
The only artist to twist women around as much as Cindy Sherman is Pablo Picasso.
Sue Williams’s man slapping a woman while calling her “stupid cunt” is next to Richard Prince’s rephotographing of the naked preteen Brooke Shields; Cindy Sherman’s picture of vomit is placed in the mouth of a Scharf.
It’s seventeenth-century Cindy Sherman.
Today, I think of Cindy Sherman as an  artist who only gets better.
Cindy Sherman," Feb.
Carroll Dunham worked for Dorothea Rockburne  Barnaby Furnas worked for Carroll Dunham  Christopher Wool worked for Joel Shapiro  Josh Smith worked for Christopher Wool  Annette Lemieux worked for David Salle  Jackie Saccoccio worked for Christopher Wool  Alexander Ross worked for Julian Lethbridge  Sarah Morris worked for Jeff Koons  Jennifer Rubell worked for Koons  Tony Matelli worked for Koons  Carl Fudge worked for David Reed  Matthew Weinstein worked for Ross Bleckner  Darren Bader worked for Urs Fischer   Robb Pruitt worked for Richard Artschwager   Daphne Fitzpatrick worked for Robert Gober  Robert Gober worked for Jennifer Bartlett  Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober  Margaret Lee worked for Cindy Sherman  Rirkrit Tiravanija worked for Gretchen Bender  Udomsak Krisanamis worked for Rirkrit Tiravanija  Brice Marden worked for Robert Rauschenberg  Dorothea Rockburne worked for Robert Rauschenberg   Matt Magee worked for Robert Rauschenberg  Elizabeth Peyton worked for Ronald Jones  Haroon Mirza worked for Jeremy Deller  Matt Keegan worked for Elizabeth Peyton  Gabriel Orozco worked for Antony Gormley  Alexis Rockman worked for Ross Bleckner  Mark Handforth worked for Martin Kippenberg  Jutta Koether worked for Martin Kippenberger  Susan Jennings worked for Cindy Sherman  Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter  Ronnie Cutrone worked for Andy Warhol  George Condo worked for Andy Warhol  Elyn Zimmerman worked for James Turrell.
Auction records were set for living artists like Mark Tansey, Urs Fischer, Cindy Sherman, Julie Mehretu, Cady Noland and Mark Grotjahn.
Pollock, Rauschenberg and Nan Goldin are drunk; Warhol, Johns and Cindy Sherman are stoned.
It makes Jack Goldstein’s footage of the roaring MGM lion  someone’s take (and not necessarily his) on what the MGM lion stands for;  Richard Prince’s Marlboro men went from familiar and bland to dangerous and  funny; Cindy Sherman’s dressing up like a model became as strange as dressing  up like a model really is.
Cindy Sherman, Nov.
This extraordinarily constructed image can be seen as a predecessor for numerous set-up photographers, including Jeff Wall and Cindy Sherman.
In an enormous empty one-story warehouse not 20 feet from the East River in Long Island City, a standing crowd of around 200 populated by numerous art-student types, famous artists like Cindy Sherman and Vito Acconci, sundry museum curators, and icons like David Byrne and Björk witnessed what seemed like a cosmic cross between an Egyptian funeral, the end of the world, the Rape of Europa, a demolition derby, a porn film, and voodoo ritual.
Esthetically, Ben-Tor is a hair-raising fusion of Cindy Sherman, Kara Walker, Alex Bag, Kafka, the Yiddish theater and Greek tragedy.
