There is only a little more than a week left to see the wrenching, overhung emotional roller-coaster ride that is “No Limits, Just Edges: Jackson Pollock Paintings on Paper”.
To grasp the envelope-pushing impact of Noland’s work, consider the famous story about Jackson Pollock, who, after completing an early drip painting, turned to his wife, painter Lee Krasner, and asked not if this was a good or bad work, but “Is this a painting?
Bourgeois—who was never one of my favorites but looks ornery in the role of madwoman in minimalism’s attic on the upper floor where her sculpture is installed—was born in 1911; Meret Oppenheim and Jackson Pollock were younger.
To our eyes, it can seem a jumble of jagged shapes and muted color, a fuzzy Jackson Pollock.
The supersexy, almost abstract works by Joan Miró and André Masson stand out and prove how important “automatism” was to artists like Arshile Gorky and Jackson Pollock (whose wild Pasiphaë, is perhaps the strongest work in the show).
Jackson Pollock’s One: Number 31 is an exact rendition of what 1950 looked and felt like.
Sometimes, Muniz stretches the connection and things fall apart, as in his representations of Jackson Pollock and Joseph Beuys in chocolate syrup, a Caspar David Friedrich painting limned in dirt, or the images of objects made from wire—in homage to Calder, perhaps.
Basically, Saul thinks, “as soon as Jackson Pollock was appreciated .
Embedded in a paper surface, telling a coded but coherent story, are pennies minted in the birth years of everyone in Twitchell’s immediate family, as well as portraits of Ronald and Nancy Reagan, stamps depicting Jackson Pollock, and Reno casinos.
Plus, Lichtenstein’s 1941 Jackson Pollock is so terrific and tortured you’ll think it’s Gorky copying Picasso.
Seeing early Philip Guston reconcile new subject matter into his art and all the so-called bad, early pre-drip Jackson Pollock paintings that wrestle the lessons of the Mexicans into dense configurations of mythic subject matter are both mind-boggling shows within a show and remap the trajectory of American painting.
My hands-down fave is Siqueiros — who joined the Mexican Revolutionary Army at 18, then the Communist Party, was jailed in and exiled from Mexico, and mentored artists Jackson Pollock and Philip Guston — whose mad paintings look like end-time raptures.
A list of his friends and acquaintances includes Stuart Davis — his closest painter compatriot — W.E.B. Du Bois (whose portrait he did), Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Jacob Lawrence, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe (who did a portrait of him), Edward Steichen, Dorothy Norman, Anaïs Nin (who intimidated him), Jackson Pollock, and Jean Genet.
Movies are made about him and about Pablo Picasso, Paul Gauguin, Frida Kahlo, Jackson Pollock, and Warhol (and the woman who shot him).
As perfect as Jackson Pollock summed up 1950 in his epic One: Number 31.
In some ways he sums up what the early political 1960s looked and felt like as much as Jackson Pollock’s drips define what the early cultural 1950s looked and felt like in America.
An index of e-commerce, a police exam is next to a yoga mat near a fire extinguisher near knapsacks and a book of Jackson Pollock’s recipes.
In the 1940s peers like Arshile Gorky, Franz Kline, Jackson Pollock, and Mark Rothko were finding their ways into all-over abstraction.
To me it also implies the art-historical perspective Stella is trying to extend: the flattening of space that takes place in painting from the mid-19th century through the Cubists, Mondrian, and Malevich to the shattering all-over nonhierarchical composition of Jackson Pollock.
Miraculously, Alfonso Ossorio’s scratched and splattered canvas more than holds its own against Jackson Pollock.
For me, Wool captures the ways New York looks, sounds, and smells in our time, much as Jackson Pollock’s drip paintings embody the city’s texture in the fifties.
As does Cinthia Marcelle’s video of a street strewn with buckets, crates, fluorescent tubes, tires, and all manner of thrown debris—a meeting of abstraction, scatter art, Jackson Pollock, Richard Serra’s molten lead, Fischli-Weiss, and Tahrir Square.
Jackson Pollock, whom de Kooning always spoke of admiringly, railed, “Bill, you betrayed it.
Composed of woven rope dipped in latex, it hangs in a corner like a leathery spiderweb, and in this new, solitary context I suddenly realized that what Hesse was doing with gravity and materiality was essentially the same as what Jackson Pollock was doing with his drip paintings: employing laws of nature while breaking away from geometry and the body, and radically redefining beauty.
Jackson Pollock’s One: Number 31, 1950 is an image of what New York felt, looked, and sounded like in 1950.
Large pretty paintings made of chewing gum replicate the abstraction of Jackson Pollock and Yves Klein.
The rough allover composition isn’t looking back cozily at Impressionism; these paintings are pointed deep into the future, directly at artists like Joan Mitchell, Jackson Pollock, and Georg Baselitz.
Like Jackson Pollock before him, he discovered something that had been in painting all along, always overlooked or discounted.
As does Cinthia Marcelle's video of a street being strewn with buckets, crates, fluorescent tubes, tires and all manner of thrown debris -- a meeting of abstraction, scatter art, Jackson Pollock, Richard Serra’s molten lead, Fischli-Weiss and Tahrir Square.
Painter Morris Louis called her “a bridge between Jackson Pollock and what was possible”.
There is only a little more than a week left to see the wrenching, overhung emotional roller-coaster ride that is "No Limits, Just Edges: Jackson Pollock Paintings on Paper".
To grasp the envelope-pushing impact of Noland's work, consider the famous story about Jackson Pollock, who, after completing an early drip painting, turned to his wife, painter Lee Krasner, and asked not if this was a good or bad work, but "Is this a painting"?
