Even so, MOMA’s narrative wouldn’t be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch, and Claude Cahun.
So far on the fourth and fifth floors there hasn’t been a single Modigliani, Rouault, or Soutine, no Toulouse-Lautrec, Balthus, Hartley, or Alice Neel.
Good or bad, questionable or not, Louise Nevelson would be brought back into the mix, as would Marisol, Arman, Alice Neel, Paula Rego, Elaine de Kooning, and H.C. Westermann.
In the painting and sculpture galleries, there’s no Ensor, Modigliani, Morandi, or Soutine; no Balthus, Hartley, Dove, or Albers; no Sonia Delaunay, Alice Neel, Vuillard, or Toulouse-Lautrec.
Better were the Barbara Kruger, Sol LeWitt, and Alice Neel shows.
The way Alice Neel rides the edge of something primitive in her work, the physicalness of her process, her alternately agitated and mangy surfaces, her breathtaking brushstrokes, and the hypersensitive obsessiveness of her portraits suggest Neel ranks among the greatest American painters of the 20th century and merits more than a floor of the Whitney.
He is almost an exact contemporary of, and the New York counterpart to, another great painter-portraitist, an artist who captured the power and magic of being poor stylishly, who lived on the margins but eventually came to be recognized as a visionary: Alice Neel.
Jordan Casteel; Nights in Harlem Casey Kaplan 121 W. 27th Street / through October 28Jordan Casteel’s new exhibition Nights in Harlem shows this very talented 28-year-old Yale graduate (and Alice Neel in embryo) picking up her painterly and visionary game to great effect in portraits of her Harlem neighbors that reveal profound empathy for the inner lives and consciousness of her subjects.
At one point of “Unfinished” I thought, Maybe everything comes back to Titian, as I looked at Alice Neel’s 1965 portrait of a black draftee who sat for the artist once, promising to return, but never did.
It’s a collapsing of Lucian and Sigmund Freud by way of de Kooning, Franz West, early Oldenburg, and the pregnant figures of Alice Neel.
Nearby, Alice Neel and Jacob Lawrence take on Picasso, not to mention Goya, trying to paint social strife and World War II, and their paintings have their own pictorial densities, styles, ideas about suffering, and — in the case of Lawrence — being a black American solider.
One floor down, in addition to a 1935 painting by Alice Neel of coal and steel strikes, there’s Harry Sternberg’s 1935 satanic lithograph, Southern Holiday.
Almost every Bosch, Cézanne, Matisse, Alice Neel, Bill Traylor, Martín Ramírez, and Marsden Hartley that I’ve ever seen can flash like lightning at will.
Before her, Frida Kahlo, Alice Neel, and Louise Nevelson regularly were relegated to the ghetto.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus, and Andy Warhol.
There should be rooms of Alice Neel, Georgia O’Keefe, Lee Bontecou, Arthur Dove, Stuart Davis, Arshile Gorky, and Paul Cadmus.
Or just take Alice Neel, a kind of American antihero (auntie-hero?
Before her, Frida Kahlo, Alice Neel and Louise Nevelson regularly were relegated to the ghetto.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.
Even so, MOMA's narrative wouldn't be disrupted by having work on view by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Sonia Delaunay, Louise Nevelson, Emma Kunz, Hilma af Klint, Adrian Piper, Marisol, Maya Deren, Dorthea Rockburne, Niki de Saint Phalle, Jo Baer, Jay DeFeo, Joan Brown, Grace Hartigan, Leonora Carrington, Leonor Fini, Natalia Goncharova, Gego, Dorothea Tanning, Romaine Brooks, Ree Morton, Howardena Pindell, Lee Lozano, Hanna Hoch and Claude Cahun.
So far on the fourth and fifth floors there hasn't been a single Modigliani, Rouault or Soutine, no Toulouse-Lautrec, Balthus, Hartley or Alice Neel.
