A Whistler would show it in a dandy light; a Homer would indicate some of its origins; Frank Lloyd Wright’s anti-modern modernism could have demonstrated what happens when solitariness becomes individualism.
Moving up Frank Lloyd Wright’s great ramp, with side trips to adjacent galleries, the exhibition is like a cyclone that takes you through the beautiful, bizarre phantasmagoria of the Cremaster epic.
Other geniuses at the show’s margins include the architects Frank Lloyd Wright and Richard Neutra (but no Empire State Building or Pennsylvania Station); the designers Henry Dreyfuss (of the black rotary telephone) and Raymond Loewy (represented only by a Flash Gordon–like pencil sharpener); and the great ceramic artist George Ohr, whose three tiny vases have some of the insouciant grace of Fred and Ginger.
Every morning on the way to high school, I took circuitous shortcuts, crawling through bushes, smelling dirt, and emerging in the backyards of almost a dozen different Frank Lloyd Wright homes.
He’s a genuine American genius on the level of Frank Lloyd Wright and Emerson, and some of that genius is this building.
) I was so jazzed by what I was seeing that, about two thirds up Frank Lloyd Wright’s spiral, at the point in most Guggenheim shows where I feel the artists or curators running out of gas or trying to cobble together a last transition, I realized I hadn’t seen a clunker yet, and what I could see ahead looked even stronger.
Even if you don’t like seeing art at the Guggenheim, you have to admit that it’s breathtaking to walk into Frank Lloyd Wright’s radical interior tornado.
As I went through This Progress, one of two performance pieces by Tino Sehgal that transform Frank Lloyd Wright’s emptied-out spiral into a dreamy Socratic-purgatorial journey, the museum literally fell away.
So I jumped at what seemed like an unbelievable chance to carry out my fantasy: an opportunity to spend the night with my wife on a rotating queen-size bed fitted out with satin sheets on the sixth ramp of Frank Lloyd Wright’s Guggenheim Museum.
Though I love the Guggenheim’s Frank Lloyd Wright mother ship on Fifth Avenue, one thing this museum has needed for years has been more wide-open, non-spiraling space in New York.
