In their collection are artists like Prince, Joe Bradley, Christopher Wool, Nate Lowman, Alex Da Corte, Alex Israel, Dan Colen, and many other very famous artists.
It has “discovered” and nurtured a number of now well-known painters: in addition to Williams, Joe Bradley, and Matt Connors, for instance; Bernhardt started elsewhere, but came to light at Canada.
See Nate Lowman, Urs Fischer, Joe Bradley, Mark Grotjahn, Dan Colen, Paul Chan, and many others who emerged about the same time.
Looking around at the statements made by what has been hung, Laura Owens, Nicole Eisenman, Michael Williams, Michaela Eichwald, Kerstin Bratsch, and Joe Bradley all impress.
The Egyptian levels of optical clarity, blocky shapes, and opaque color have helped form contemporary artists as varied as Gary Hume, Wangechi Mutu, Huma Bhabha, and Joe Bradley.
One well-known curator tried recently to justify the splattered Julian ­Schnabel–Joe Bradley–Jean-Michel Basquiat manqué of Oscar Murillo—the hottest of all these artists—by connecting his tarp- or tentlike surfaces to the people living under makeshift canvas shelters in Murillo’s native Colombia.
Bottom row: Marshall Head (Void) (2012), by Louis Eisner; Colossal Head (2007), by Joe Bradley; Blue Eye (2008), by Charline von Heyl.
It looks like a deft combination of Julian Schnabel, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Joe Bradley, whom I’m told he worked for and whose ideas he appears to have hugely appropriated.
(In fact, it’s because Murillo’s work is a dull knockoff of Julian Schnabel and Joe Bradley with some Basquiat mixed in.
Most recently, I saw premodern/postmodern paintings by Joe Bradley, who mixes minimalism, cave painting, and chance in work that looks like flags and graffiti.
The youngest painter, Joe Bradley, 32, contributes three works that are boring, puckered versions of Ellsworth Kelly.
The youngest painter, Joe Bradley, 32, has looked very good previously, but here contributes three works that are only boring versions of Ellsworth Kelly.
