And while almost every artist who emerged in the 1970s experimented with shaped paintings, Murray’s curving and hard-edged multi-paneled canvases make the most convincing argument I’ve ever seen for a painting being irregularly shaped, three-dimensional, bumpy, and filled with holes: more so than Frank Stella, whose work came first and is as garish but who isn’t as interested in how his surfaces are painted, or Lee Bontecou, who came before that, but never really painted her shapes.
Buren is known primarily for his stripe paintings, which he calls  “visual tools”—amalgams of Ellsworth Kelly and Frank Stella by way of Matisse and readymades.
Individual tiles like The Banality of Evil and The Pleasure of Pity and Fear underscore this while also recalling Frank Stella, who likewise methodically applied black paint to raw canvas and gave his work provocative personal-impersonal titles like Marriage of Reason and Squalor and Arbeit Macht Frei.
Frank Stella is at work on a galaxy of space junk; Richard Serra is creating a family of slabs for the ages.
For that matter, neither did the dematerialization of art in the ’60s, Barry LeVa, or the paintings of Frank Stella.
Artists who have foundered in this decorative sea include Judy Pfaff, Jessica Stockholder, and Frank Stella himself.
An uneven array of painters will be on view, among them John Currin, Carroll Dunham, Jonathan Lasker, Nicola Tyson, Lari Pittman, Lily van der Stokker, Elliott Puckett, Thomas Scheibitz, Diana Cooper, Pet Sourin-thone, Paul Laffoly, John Wesley, David Reed, Frank Stella, and finally the exuberantly Hartley-esque David Bates, about whom Gary Indiana wrote one of the funniest, cruelest, and most unforgettable lines of art criticism, in his Voice review of the 1987 Whitney Biennial: “David Bates?
There’s the beautiful Robert Rauschenberg dressed in a fleece vest, Andy Warhol talking to Henry Geldzahler at a Frank Stella opening, and Alexander Calder surrounded by patrons.
In A 1968 Painting, Baldessari silk-screened an image of a 1968 painting by artist Frank Stella.
Indeed, De Maria made a swastika made of shiny metal troughs; Frank Stella named a work Arbeit Macht Frei (“Work Makes You Free,” the slogan over the gates of Auschwitz); Morris created cages and famously posed shirtless wearing a Nazi helmet; Judd said he was interested in “plain power”; Dan Flavin even referred to an erection when using the phrase “diagonal of personal ecstasy” to describe one of his fluorescent-light sculptures.
Ditto the announcement that the current retrospective of another divisive white male art star, Frank Stella, would be its maiden big-time survey in the new building.
For relief, I dove into the succulent color of Rachel Rose’s video and the kaleidoscopic insanity of the Frank Stella shows on the floor below.
With its brand-new fifth-floor-filling Frank Stella retrospective, the recently christened Whitney Museum of American Art jumps into the fray to see if and how its new rawish spaces will work for big surveys of contemporary art.
In truth, I recoiled when it was announced that the Whitney’s maiden big retrospective was to be Frank Stella.
Jasper Johns sold three paintings to MoMA from his first 1958 Leo Castelli solo; Frank Stella sold work to MoMA before his first Castelli show.
And while almost every artist who emerged in the 1970s experimented with shaped paintings, Murray's curving and hard-edged multi-paneled canvases make the most convincing argument I've ever seen for a painting being irregularly shaped, three-dimensional, bumpy and filled with holes: more so than Frank Stella, whose work came first and is as garish but who isn't as interested in how his surfaces are painted, or Lee Bontecou, who came before that, but never really painted her shapes.
Buren is       known primarily for his stripe paintings, which he calls "visual tools" --       amalgams of Ellsworth Kelly and Frank Stella by way of Matisse and readymades.
