Yet, like Amy Sillman who approaches painting similarly, Harrison evinces a real passion for tradition.
Which brings us to the intrepid Amy Sillman.
The whole thing, which owes much to process art, suggests a 24th-century Saõ Paulo, a multi-colored electromagnetic field of timber crystals, or a three-dimensional Amy Sillman painting.
A case in point: Two months ago, in Williamsburg, I drove past two artists I know and like, Amy Sillman and Rachel Harrison, both of whom impress in “Open House”.
Amy Sillman, James Siena, Mel Bochner, Fred Tomaselli, and Lecia Dole-Recio also look good.
Amy Sillman paints in one of the weirder gaps in recent art: between Philip Guston’s early abstract impressionistic canvases and his later bulbous figurative ones.
His patchwork composition portends artists like Rauschenberg, Polke, and Basquiat, while his intoxicated, comic book style and sexual imaginings predict everyone from Peter Saul and Jim Shaw to Amy Sillman and Carroll Dunham.
(Amy Sillman’s jam-packed artist-curated group show “Shape” is by far the best single show in the museum — because she thinks like an artist!
Along with a handful of other artists (notably Nicole Eisenman, Katherine Bernhardt, Judith Linhares, and Amy Sillman), she is a progenitor of a kind of abstract-imaginative figuration, keyed-up color, and looser gesture that is now widespread.
That’s when Klint had what the artist Amy Sillman, in the catalogue, aptly calls “the worst studio visit of all time”.
With artists like Dona Nelson, Jessica Jackson-Hutchins, Cecily Brown, Amy Sillman, Charline von Heyl, Jackie Saccoccio, and Dana Schutz, Bernhardt shattered one of the last taboos of women’s art: to paint messy, expressionistic, garish things.
The list of artists influenced by this incredible work includes Nicole Eisenman, Amy Sillman, Albert Oehlen, Carroll Dunham, Elizabeth Murray, and Georg Baselitz, who saw as early as 1959 that Guston was involved with “a distortion of the abstract … full of concrete forms”.
While the optical power in her work, her wild imagery and color, even helped free artists who were her elders — able painters like von Heyl, Humphries, Amy Sillman, and many others — Schutz was cast as a “market artist,” somehow not part of the art community.
Age-wise, there’s a 30-year spread with Amy Sillman being almost 60 and Oscar Murillo nearly 30.
Stalwarts like Amy Sillman, happy inclusion Mary Weatherford, and Charlene Von Heyl come off well.
The prehistoric-like wrecked giant ceramic ashtray-objects of Sterling Ruby are maybe my favorite objects in the show; I love the chaotically woven two-sided paintings of Dona Nelson, the glimmering chain-metal beaded-curtain adorned with antique tools by Joel Otterson, the material-poetry of the collaboration between Amy Sillman and Pam Lins.
Amy Sillman, 52, made the cover of Artforum last February, and her prices have reached $85,000.
Yet, like Amy Sillman, who approaches painting similarly, Harrison evinces a real passion for tradition.
