The photograph this painting is based on was taken by Robert Mapplethorpe in 1984.
It’s like seeing strangers enact Cindy Sherman and Robert Mapplethorpe pictures.
John Currin’s Pulp cover didn’t make it, nor did Perry Hoberman’s cool design for Laurie Anderson’s Big Science, or Robert Mapplethorpe’s striking photo of Patti Smith for Horses.
Robert Mapplethorpe is excluded, as if to say his main importance was in the controversy his work generated; this thought is then negated with inclusions—like Judith Barry and Jeff Wall—that suggest only the theoretically correct need apply.
Before Francesco Clemente’s full name appears in the show’s catalogue we’ve already seen a 1982 Robert Mapplethorpe portrait of the artist wearing an elegant overcoat, clasping his hands as if to support an invisible, wounded dove.
See Clemente paint Alex Katz who paints Clemente who paints Allen Ginsberg who photographs Clemente who paints Robert Mapplethorpe who is godfather to Clemente’s children.
They took the heat and did the shows, popular or not: Eric Fischl, Cindy Sherman, Robert Mapplethorpe, Jean-Michel Basquiat.
Soon thereafter, gay photographer Robert Mapplethorpe was denounced in Congress for his Man in a Polyester Suit, a photograph of a black man with a long penis.
1984-1991In the Reagan ’80s, photographers like Nan Goldin and Robert Mapplethorpe document a demimonde that looks like it might go extinct.
The Establishment doesn’t love that stuff … 1989Senator Jesse Helms denounces Andres Serrano’s photograph of a crucifix submerged in urine, and 107 outraged congressmen threaten to cut NEA funding in retaliation for Piss Christ and a planned Corcoran retrospective of Robert Mapplethorpe.
Under the guise of budget-cutting and the public good, Republicans went on the warpath, assailing the NEA and artists like Robert Mapplethorpe, Karen Finley, and Andreas Serrano as being chosen by experts and receiving public funds and displaying vulgarities in publicly funded spaces.
In an art world that said it wanted people to be free, at the exact moment everyone rallied to defend artists like Robert Mapplethorpe and Karen Finley for their forays into sexuality, Koons had gone too far.
And the prototype for all New York art scandals to come was not over Chris Ofili or Robert Mapplethorpe but the 1913 Armory Show.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus, and Andy Warhol.
Robert Mapplethorpe’s iconic 1982 portrait of Louise Bourgeois, who died yesterday at 98, speaks volumes about Bourgeois’s free-spiritedness, grace, tenacity, and the kinky perversity of her work.
His Notes on the Margin of the Black Book intersperses images of Robert Mapplethorpe’s nude studies of black men with texts by authors such as Toni Morrison and James Baldwin questioning acts of so-called bodily colonization like this.
There are endless portraits and pictures of the city’s denizens, old and young, famous and not by Alice Neel, Florine Stettheimer, Irving Penn, Helen Levitt, Berenice Abbott, Robert Mapplethorpe, Diane Arbus and Andy Warhol.
The show includes Sarah Charlesworth, Larry Clark, Fab 5 Freddy, Robert Mapplethorpe, Keith Haring, Nan Goldin, Kenny Scharf, Kiki Smith, Robin Winters and others.
