Other standouts included Dasha Shishkin, Jackie Saccoccio, Seth Price, Thomas Hirschhorn, Marilyn Minter, Josiah McElheny, Cheney Thompson, Wade Guyton, Aaron Young, Harrell Fletcher, Mark Grotjahn, and perhaps best of all, the exhibition by the living lord of chaos, Sigmar Polke.
Then there are what might be called New Modernists, artists who present odd or outlandish arrangements of found or made objects, whose work is not imbued with irony or nostalgia but a belief in materials and the desire to meld them with subject matter (think Claire Barclay, David Altmejd, Nate Lowman, Cheyney Thompson, Jim Lambie, Sarah Sze, Sam Durant, Wade Guyton, or Aleksandra Mir, but not Dario Robleto or Jason Dodge, whose narratives exist outside their objects).
Wade Guyton’s obdurate displays come to mind, as do Ritchie’s intrepid myth- and story-generating installations.
Wade Guyton wants to travel in the fast lane.
Wade Guyton Patagonia PetzelWell this could be embarrassing: I’ve been a big fan of Wade Guyton’s digitally generated, collaged, Adobe Photoshopped, bitmapped files; UltraChrome, DuraBrite inkjet on linen; and Epson-printed paintings almost since he emerged in the early 2000s — all the way through him becoming a mega-artist selling works for millions and all the way past his impressive 2013 Whitney Museum retrospective.
Griffin’s magazine played an instrumental role in identifying a now well-known strain of digital neo-appropriation artists like Wade Guyton, Seth Price, and Kelley Walker, and later put Danh Vo on the cover.
*This article has been corrected to show that Wade Guyton has not sold a piece to the Kushner-Trump family.
Neither deals with reproductive issues in the veins of Wade Guyton or Kelly Walker.
(Almost the exact resistances we see today to artists like Wade Guyton and Richard Prince.
Anton Perich, “Electric Paintings 1978–2014” Postmasters, 54 Franklin StreetThe first sentence of this exhibition’s punchy press release takes a direct shot at something I wrote, pointing out “No, Wade Guyton did not ‘invent a new paint brush,’ Anton Perich did it in 1978, when Guyton was six”.
(The same stupid argument flared when I called Wade Guyton’s work “paintings” and not “prints”.
And all the work looks more or less the same, a cross between Christopher Wool, Wade Guyton, some constructivism or minimalism, all by way of the abstract drips and speckle patterns of zombie painting.
) These artists are acting like industrious junior post­modernist worker bees, trying to crawl into the body of and imitate the good old days of abstraction, deploying visual signals of Suprematism, color-field painting, minimalism, post-minimalism, Italian Arte Povera, Japanese Mono-ha, process art, modified action painting, all gesturing toward guys like Polke, Richter, Warhol, Wool, Prince, Kippenberger, Albert Oehlen, Wade Guyton, Rudolf Stingel, Sergej Jensen, and Michael Krebber.
Martin glides in slo-mo past art featured in the sale: work by Christopher Wool, Wade Guyton, Richard Prince, Jeff Koons, Dan Colen, Cady Noland, John Currin, and other blue-chip names.
Wade Guyton’s smallish but beautiful black, blue, and red Untitled is estimated to sell for between $2.
What was Wade Guyton to do?
Instead of trying to get between photography and painting, like Doig does, Williams looks to be getting between painting and the digital world, like Wade Guyton.
All this work has readymade references to preapproved, mostly male painters like Albert Oehlen, Christopher Wool, Michael Krebber, Wade Guyton, Laura Owens, and Sergej Jensen*, or to the Minimalism or Pop movements, and of course it all calls up Warhol, Richter, Kippenberger, or Prince.
As in the Guggenheim’s “Picasso Black and White,” or the Whitney’s own Wade Guyton survey, it’s as if adding one more formal element would just be too much for Artschwager to manage.
In 2002, Wade Guyton invented a new paintbrush.
Much has been written about Flavin, but to my knowledge only the artist Wade Guyton has cannily noted how important the electric cords are in his work.
Wade Guyton’s quasi-Suprematist 2006 rendition of smudged black Xs is about Warhol, the negation of the hand, writing as art, marking time, the machine-made touch, and the notion that printing is painting.
