There’s Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
Some of the best pictures, including one of a princely Piotr Uklanski on his bed already looking like an Elizabeth Peyton painting, have a Nan Goldin noir quality about them.
Hernan Bas’s paintings at Daniel Reich, while obviously earnest and stylish, are way too indebted to Karen Kilimnik, Elizabeth Peyton, and Henry Darger.
Just as Elizabeth Peyton’s scale, touch, and sincerity were implicitly critical of the slick ironies of late-’80s appropriation and Neo-Geo and the bravado of neo-expressionism, the apparently in-turned, decorative obsessiveness of this work is implicitly critical of the flashy Festivalism and gonzo careerism of the decade that followed.
Photography is almost absent, and painting is weak, although Laura Owens’s buoyant imaginary tree and Elizabeth Peyton’s stunning self-portrait are the two best works in the exhibition.
In fact, a number of his painterly peers— Elizabeth Peyton, Peter Doig, Takashi Murakami, Luc Tuymans, Laura Owens, and Matthew Ritchie, among them—have influenced other artists more with their individual styles.
If nothing else, it made the realism, eccentricities, subject choices, and painterly styles of artists as diverse as Karen Kilimnik, Elizabeth Peyton, Laura Owens, Sean Landers, Lisa Yuskavage, and John Currin—all of whom were just beginning to show—make more sense than they might have otherwise.
Ditto Laura Owens, who approaches every drawing as an occasion to rethink drawing; Neo Rauch, whose works on paper aren’t that different from his paintings but are so good it doesn’t matter; Barry McGee’s turbocharged wall of drawings; Franz Ackermann’s 34 studies of a walk through Pittsburgh (with provocative titles like Cinema Beirut and Former Trade Center); John Currin, not because his drawings are so good but because they’re so weird; and Elizabeth Peyton, whose drawings aren’t as juicy as her paintings but are still captivating.
It’s interesting to compare him to Americans like John Currin, whose show is up at Andrea Rosen, and Elizabeth Peyton, whose exhibition at Gavin Brown just closed.
It doesn’t matter who they are (and none of them are that important), but in an article in this month’s Art Newspaper, a ’90s painting phenom calls ’90s art “as nutrient-free as television”; an art-market analyst opines that “John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, and Elizabeth Peyton .
Because many of the artists in “Sentimental Education” have a light touch and a worldly point of view, Elizabeth Peyton presides over the show like a benevolent spirit.
Nearby is Whistler’s portrait of George W. Vanderbilt, whose lithesome posture is pure Elizabeth Peyton.
Have Camnitzer, Wodiczko, or Haacke (whose contested piece is tepid and academic) made more of a contribution in the last two years than Laura Owens, Alex Bag, Tom Friedman, or Elizabeth Peyton?
The problem isn’t that Brown’s paintings feel old; it’s that they aren’t old in interesting ways (as are John Currin’s, Lisa Yuskavage’s, or Elizabeth Peyton’s).
Bickerton is to hate what Elizabeth Peyton is to love.
Elizabeth Peyton is still in love.
In 1993, Elizabeth Peyton’s New York breakthrough was staged by dealer Gavin Brown in Room 828 of the Chelsea Hotel.
He showed artists like Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, Elizabeth Peyton, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and many others who have gone on to worldwide fame.
Rather than just comparing, say, a Jacques-Louis David portrait from around the French Revolution and Benjamin West’s unfinished portrait of the American Founding Fathers with a picture of Napoleon by Elizabeth Peyton, fathom seeing — from around the same time — a wooden statue from modern Zaire of a contemporary king, a commemorative terracotta portrait from Ghana, an Indonesian ship cloth showing local armies, a feather god by an anonymous Polynesian artist, an erotic Japanese Shunga woodblock of kings and queens doing unspeakable fabulous things with one another.
A few of the artists in this year’s open-house: 1, 4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon.
4, Marlene Dumas; 2, 7, Victor Man; 3, 29 Richard Prince; 5, Rosa Loy; 6, 16, Elizabeth Peyton; 8, 27, Karen Kilimnik; 9, Mircea Suciu; 10, Ellen Gronemeyer; 11, Erik Van Lieshout; 12, Andy Hope; 13, Gillian Carnegie; 14, Raymond Pettibon; 15, 31, Neo Rauch; 17, Tim Eitel; 18, 24, Paul P.; 19, Wilhelm Sasnal; 20, Eberhard Havekost; 21, Luc Tuymans; 22, Michaël Borremans; 23, Cindy Sherman; 25, 30, John Currin; 26, Nicole Eisenman; 28, Adrian Ghenie; 32, Lisa Yuskavage; 33, Axel Geis*This article appears in the February 22, 2016 issue of New York Magazine.
Shaw’s activities can be seen to presage artists like John Currin, Elizabeth Peyton, Lisa Yuskavage, Karen Kilimnik, Sean Landers, and others — all of whom explored then-unused visual painterly information.
In different ways, each has been instrumental in a transition that painting has made since then, from the more traditionally skillful, twisted figuration practiced in this country, especially by John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, and Elizabeth Peyton, among others.
A lovely nearby 1998 Elizabeth Peyton is priced at a half-million dollars.
Highly admired, even loved in the art world, she is a lucid thinker and writer and has long been a remarkably perceptive curator, among the first proponents of early-1990s artists like John Currin, Luc Tuymans, Elizabeth Peyton, Gabriel Orozco, and Chris Ofili.
In 1993 in London, he started publishing projects with then-unknown artists like Peter Doig, Elizabeth Peyton, Chris Ofili, and Jeremy Deller, among others, and went on to write well about art for ArtForum, among other places, and was then a director of exhibitions at London’s storied ICA (the place where Pop Art was actually born).
• Ryzard Kapuscinski, The Emperor (Pan, 1983)An account of the last days of the emperor Haillie Sailassie♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Elizabeth Peyton, artist• Marcel Proust, Remembrance of Things Past (Paris, 1914-27)• Andy Warhol, The Warhol Diaries (Simon & Schuster, 1989)• Balzac, Lost Illusions (Penguin, 1937)• Jon Savage, England’s Dreaming (Faber & Faber, 1991)• Vincent Cronin, Napoleon (Collins, 1971)♦ ♦ ♦ ♦Raymond Pettibon, artist• Thomas Browne, essays on Gardens, Urn Burial, etc.
In 1993, Brown organized a show of the unknown painter Elizabeth Peyton in room 828 of the Hotel Chelsea.
In the section grouped by celebrity, or maybe celebrity lips, near Warhol’s portraits of Elvis, Marilyn, and Brando, we see sexy lips in portraits by Chuck Close, Elizabeth Peyton, and Karen Kilimnik.
Until 2005, the trio staged fabulous or head-scratching pop-up shows: Adam McEwan’s sign that said “Fuck Off We’re Closed,” Elizabeth Peyton’s large portrait-on-glass of Napoleon for Valentine’s Day, Paul McCarthy’s enormous Santa Butt Plug decorated with excrement, and Pawel Althamer’s piece in which he hired Polish illegal immigrants to smash the glass with a baseball bat every Saturday.
Even if you didn’t like the surveys of Elizabeth Peyton, Dorothy Iannone, and Mary Heilmann, these artists deserved shows in a New York museum, and nobody else stepped up.
Many cite the constellation of shows by the art stars Tomma Abts, Elizabeth Peyton, and Fischer as proof that the New Museum is too enamored of money and success.
Fischer’s art dealer is Gavin Brown, who also represents Elizabeth Peyton, Jeremy Deller, and Steven Shearer, all four of whom have had solo shows at the New Museum since it re-opened less than two years ago.
Fischer’s dealer is Gavin Brown, who also represents Elizabeth Peyton, Jeremy Deller, and Steven Shearer, all of whom have had shows at the museum in the last two years.
Best Trend: More Big Shows for WomenThe New Museum mounted strong surveys of Tomma Abts, Mary Heilmann, and Elizabeth Peyton, and MoMA opened its Marlene Dumas show—all the more impressive at a time when the cards are still odiously stacked against female artists.
Elizabeth Peyton, the artist known for tiny, dazzling portraits of radiant youth, is now painting tiny, dazzling portraits of radiant middle age.
Even if you didn’t like the surveys of Elizabeth Peyton, Dorothy Iannone and Mary Heilmann, these artists deserved shows in a New York museum, and nobody else stepped up.
Many cite the constellation of shows by the art stars Tomma Abts, Elizabeth Peyton and Fischer as proof that the New Museum is too enamored of money and success.
Elizabeth Peyton, Apr.
There's Rirkrit Tiravanija in his East Village apartment, Elizabeth Peyton in her storefront studio, Kiki Smith surrounded by plaster casts, and an intense John Currin standing in his East Houston Street studio.
