Yet it’s easy to imagine why artists might participate in and control the branding of their own image, even if this branding sometimes takes over, as with Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons, Francesco Clemente, or even Warhol—who at some point in the late 1970s became a walking photo op.
Not surprisingly, Jeff Koons takes the most control of all, posing as a tattooed leather boy with a tattooed biker chick.
In the part of a flying monkey is that imp of the perverse, Jeff Koons, clutching an alarmed-looking Knightley.
It was at the off-site Arolsen, near Documenta in 1992, that Jeff Koons—who had been excluded from that year’s Documenta—created his magnificent 40 foot topiary “Puppy”.
One morning I read about Jeff Koons’s 50th birthday party at Jeffrey Deitch’s with its “forty-one piece marching band and an escort of ponies” and caught myself simpering because I hadn’t been invited.
Here, Hirst is doing what he’s always done: trying to imitate Jeff Koons.
This ties him to artists like Pierre Huyghe and Jeff Koons, who both create elaborate artifices in order to express and explore emotion.
Some of the better artists representing this phase include Jeff Koons, Ashley Bickerton, Richard Prince, and the late Gretchen Bender.
Practitioners include On Kawara, John Baldessari, Allan McCollum, and lately Cheney Thompson, as well as Francis Alys and Jeff Koons, who both hire others to make their paintings.
Even the once spongy Jeff Koons got buff for his close-up with Cicciolina.
I spent the past 11 years being disappointed in Jeff Koons.
On the occasion of the 1999 Sonnabend exhibition that contained the first American sightings of these Pop-y paintings, aesthetic clairvoyant Clarissa Dalrymple observed, “You know, Jeff Koons has never done a bad show.
When Jeff Koons took out self-promoting ads in 1988, he was shunned.
Matthew Barney’s New York debut was up at Barbara Gladstone, and Jeff Koons was about to be kicked out of the art world for his notorious “Made in Heaven” exhibition at Sonnabend.
Perched in the middle of the “Innocence” show, Jeff Koons’s incomprehensible, ungiving stainless-steel Rabbit elicits curiosity.
Any thoughts about formalism, sex, birth, abortion, Jeff Koons, or the out-of-body strangeness of a visit to the doctor are annulled when Hirst pushes this into one-liner land, saying, “Women smell of fucking kippers”.
Maybe even Jeff Koons’s will to power owes a little something to Kruger’s.
Eight years after its debut in Arolson, Germany; after a 1996 stint in Sydney; its installation outside the Guggenheim in Bilbao, where Basque guerrillas threatened to blow it up; a recent spider fumigation by Australian shippers; who knows how many false starts and delays caused by the perfectionism of its maker, one of the two versions of Puppy, Jeff Koons’s inflorescent topiary masterpiece, has reached Manhattan.
Usual suspects like Jeff Koons, Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, and Francesco Clemente, in other words, share space with usual-unusual suspects like Ilya Kabakov, Jimmie Durham, Adrian Piper, and Krzysztof Wodiczko.
Sue Williams also embedded racy detail in lyrical paint strokes, while Jeff Koons set the gold standard for what’s possible with sex and painting with his porno pictures, which were so out-there they almost got him kicked out of the art world.
The sum and substance of this tradition, of course, is Andy Warhol, and it probably includes Keith Haring, Jeff Koons, maybe Damien Hirst, and unfortunately Mark Kostabi.
Along with fellow yuppie art stars     Peter Halley, Jeff Koons, and Meyer Vaisman, he was a member of the “Fab 4”: for a nanosecond, this quartet led the movement known as Neo-Geo.
This, in conjunction with her ardent sincerity, brings the work of Jeff Koons to mind.
To back them up, she quotes artists like Peter Halley, Jeff Koons, and Ross Bleckner, who says that painting has emerged “in the last nine months”.
Jeff Koons put appliances in boxes and invited us to worship them.
Price opens with a balletic dance of white-gloved workers hastening about the immaculate showrooms of Sotheby’s auction house, moving art around tony galleries, paintings by Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons, Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Rudolf Stingel, Richard Prince, Jasper Johns, Gerhard Richter, Takashi Murakami, Banksy, Christopher Wool, and many other usual market suspects.
Except maybe for Jeff Koons.
All I recall is the group being tickled by Jeff Koons’s pornographic paintings featuring himself and his Hungarian-Italian porn-star ex-wife.
)Kind showed Imagists like Jim Nutt (who helped discover Ramírez), Ed Paschke (Jeff Koons’s teacher), Karl Wirsum, Barbara Rossi, Gladys Nilsson, Robert Colescott (whose work about race is still too hot for many museums to touch), Sue Ellen Rocca, Roger Brown, Ray Yoshida, and many others I soon came to admire.
There’s a manikin with a real skeleton inside it, an animatronic figure babbling pop philosophy, a Madame Tussauds Sleeping Beauty that actually breaths or something, and, of course, recent razzle-dazzlers like Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons.
), tree trunks against a blue sky that the press release says is taken from a still from the movie Bambi, and some swirly red shapes said to derive from Walt Disney’s Fantasia — certify that this artist is flailing, making art that tries to comment on color-field, minimalist, and Abstract Expressionist painting, channeling bad-boy tropes of appropriation, and being so beholden to Jeff Koons and Richard Prince that it almost makes you wince with embarrassment.
Art-world aficionados may wince a little, gleaning the influence of artists like Jeff Koons, who has also made stacks of animals, or Takashi Murakami, who has always traded in amplified and exaggerated productions of serious subjects.
At the time, I imagined that our nonrepresentational, process-or-performance-based, and conceptual art would save Chicago from a group of artists whom I now love, the figurative surrealists — Jim Nutt, Roger Brown, Christina Ramberg, Gladys Nilsson, and Jeff Koons’s teacher Ed Paschke — known as Chicago Imagists.
Jeff Koons is as earnest in his Howdy Doody–Teletubby way as Francesca Woodman and Francis Bacon.
Artists like Jeff Koons and Peter Halley were in ascendance.
Over the years, the Met’s rooftop installations have been hit-and-miss and have included Jeff Koons doing his shiny thing there in 2008 and Dan Graham building one of his typical translucent pavilions there in 2014.
By 1990 artists like Jeff Koons, Rachel Whiteread, Chris Ofili, Gabriel Orozco, Andreas Gursky, Christopher Wool, Noland, and Damien Hirst appeared.
By the time Barney debuted Jeff Koons had essentially been banned from the art world for his hyperrealistic photographic paintings featuring him and his wife having sex.
” In the segment, which quickly became insider shorthand for all the ways the wider world misunderstands and sometimes disdains contemporary art, the irascible Safer — dressed in an almost-tuxedo and dripping with disdainful innuendo that implied that all of this was just a sham — attacked high prices (or what seemed then like high prices), the infamous “political” Whitney Biennial, and, of course, Jeff Koons.
Jeff Koons’s Puppy in front of Rockefeller Center, which I’m still convinced might have quelled even Osama bin Laden; Rob Pruitt’s Union Square Andy Warhol Monument that should be permanent; Sarah Sze’s underground room at 60th Street that made me feel like the Crab Nebula was beneath New York; Rudolf Stingel’s gigantic rug at Grand Central Terminal; Josephine Meckseper’s working Times Square oil derricks; Liz Magic Laser’s restaging of famous movie scenes on the Times Square bleachers; and Francis Alÿs’s amazing parade of replicas of MoMA masterpieces (not to mention the real Kiki Smith) carried across the 59th Street Bridge.
Its Jeff Koons blowout in 2014 tested the most faithful (though the museum did pull it off).
Indeed, the ’80s come off the best here, with three good Gobers, especially the tremendous 1985 Ascending Sink, which reverberates with more inscrutable pathos than ever, handfuls of strong Richard Prince pictures, wonderful Sherrie Levine watercolors, and a few lesser-known Jeff Koons pieces.
If you’re still cynically thinking, Yeah, but they’re still just more rich people buying famous art, as much as I loathe reducing art to prices, they paid $50 for their first Cindy Sherman, $7,500 for their first Christopher Wool, and $5,600 for their first Jeff Koons, a vacuum-cleaner sculpture they saw in the same Maiden Lane studio I saw it in — and still regret not keeping the ballpoint-pen drawing of an inflatable bunny he drew for me during that visit.
Friend of Julian Schnabel, Jeff Koons, Nan Goldin, Francesco Clemente, Peter Hujar, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Leonardo DiCaprio, Lil’ Kim, Chloë Sevigny, Miuccia Prada, Sean Penn, Helmut Lang, Todd Solondz, k.d. lang, Valentino, and Veronica Webb, and nurturer and torturer of gifted writers like Rene Ricard and Lisa Liebmann, this Sarah Lawrence graduate was a poster child for the unbridled desire of the 1980s, its creative pretentiousness in its very best and most crazy forms, the one who helped integrate underground, mainstream, fashion, rock ‘n’ roll, and anyone who showed up and tried to make a connection.
Long disparaged as a craft material, it was — like the demeaned paper silhouette that Kara Walker excavated in the early 1990s — something artists turned to in reaction to the processed, slick Jeff Koons–Damien Hirst movement toward jobbing art out to production teams.
I remember that when I asked if buyers were still willing to pay $10 million for a recent Jeff Koons painting of a lobster and centerfold, she laughed and said, “Tits and ass always sell.
Making the sale all the more irritating, the market is now so distorted and tilted toward contemporary art that $14 million raised from the auction of a Monet is less than the cost of a large work by a contemporary art star like Gerhard Richter, Jeff Koons, Christopher Wool, Peter Doig, and many others.
Plus, I’m not crass like Jeff Koons and Takashi Murakami.
Famous but never as white-hot as Jeff Koons, Gober has always been viewed by the art world as some sort of “good object,” while Koons is seen as the “bad object”.
It’s as maniacally made as a Jeff Koons sculpture.
The “show” is a sky-blue mini-double-decker van with the faces of art-world movers and shakers, like Marina Abramovic, Klaus Biesenbach (saying “I do not like it”), Richard Serra, Larry Gagosian, and Jeff Koons.
This is supposed to tell us, “See, I know I’m a painting—and I’m not glitzy like something from Takashi Murakami and Jeff Koons”.
Martin glides in slo-mo past art featured in the sale: work by Christopher Wool, Wade Guyton, Richard Prince, Jeff Koons, Dan Colen, Cady Noland, John Currin, and other blue-chip names.
When performers like Kanye West, Kim Kardashian, Lady Gaga, and, yes, Jeff Koons and Marina Abramovic try so hard to showcase and communicate how sincere they are, instead they reveal how out-of-touch they are — from each other, from themselves, from us.
“Bound 2” is certainly a piece of work — as bizarrely gonzo and creepily asexual as Jeff Koons’s hyperrealistic 1991 paintings of himself having sex with his then-wife Cicciolina, John Currin’s 1989 paintings of Breck girls, and Marina Abramovic’s staring at spectators at MoMA in 2010.
It’s a teenage girl’s bedroom’s idea of romance crossed with Richard Prince’s Cowboy photographs, American Romanticism, Celestial Seasonings packages, shampoo commercials, Iranian music videos, Thomas Kinkaid, beer ads, Jeff Koons, The Onion, Lars von Trier, the House of Fendi, and Jeffrey Deitch and his own uncanny 1992 prophecy “The Freudian model of the psychological person is dissolving …  freed of the constraints of one’s past”.
Another day, another boner from Jeff Koons.
This familiar-looking one is the cover “art” for Lady Gaga’s upcoming album ARTPOP by the art- world’s own private Teletubby, Jeff Koons.
He may also be the world’s greatest authority on the artist everyone loves to hate and make rich, Jeff Koons.
There’s George Condo and of course that idiot savant Jeff Koons.
Pretend Jeff Koons is an artist.
Jeff Koons: Gazing Ball; David Zwirner, 525 W. 19th St.; Through June 29.
Nearly all the other artists are usual suspects from the ­aesthetic-economic auction complex, blue-chippers like Damien Hirst, Takashi Murakami, Jeff Koons, Richard Prince, John Currin, Douglas Gordon, Anselm Kiefer, and Francesco Vezzoli.
(Which sounds a little like the way Jeff Koons talks.
Even Jeff Koons, whose work is utterly salable, is about art first, at the same time that he’s trying to create a $25 million hanging-locomotive sculpture to hover above the High Line.
Needless to say, these are the very things that artists like Kinkade, and of late David Hockney, have railed about when they’re done by Jeff Koons, Takashi Murakami, or Damien Hirst.
After all, Jeff Koons never built his own gated communities in California, with houses and grounds in the likeness of his paintings, with starting prices at $425,000.
(I think he’s got an art bromance brewing with Jeff Koons.
Hirst synthesizes punk, Pop Art, Jeff Koons, Marcel Duchamp, Francis Bacon, and Catholicism.
Carroll Dunham worked for Dorothea Rockburne           Barnaby Furnas worked for Carroll Dunham           Christopher Wool worked for Joel Shapiro           Josh Smith worked for Christopher Wool           Annette Lemieux worked for David Salle           Jacob Kassay worked for Josh Smith           Jackie Saccoccio worked for Christopher Wool           Alexander Ross worked for Julian Lethbridge           Sarah Morris worked for Jeff Koons           Jennifer Rubell worked for Koons           Tony Matelli worked for Koons           Carl Fudge worked for David Reed           Matthew Weinstein worked for Ross Bleckner           Darren Bader worked for Urs Fischer            Robb Pruitt worked for Richard Artschwager            Daphne Fitzpatrick worked for Robert Gober           Robert Gober worked for Jennifer Bartlett           Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober           Margaret Lee worked for Cindy Sherman           Rirkrit Tiravanija worked for Gretchen Bender           Udomsak Krisanamis worked for Rirkrit Tiravanija           Brice Marden worked for Robert Rauschenberg           Dorothea Rockburne worked for Robert Rauschenberg            Matt Magee worked for Robert Rauschenberg           Elizabeth Peyton worked for Ronald Jones           Haroon Mirza worked for Jeremy Deller           Matt Keegan worked for Elizabeth Peyton           Gabriel Orozco worked for Antony Gormley           Alexis Rockman worked for Ross Bleckner           Mark Handforth worked for Martin Kippenberg           Jutta Koether worked for Martin Kippenberger           Susan Jennings worked for Cindy Sherman           Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter           Ronnie Cutrone worked for Andy Warhol           George Condo worked for Andy Warhol           Elyn Zimmerman worked for James Turrell.
Neither is Jeff Koons, for that matter.
At this point, continuing to follow in the footsteps of Warhol, Richard Prince, Takashi Murakami, and Jeff Koons appears derivative, completely mechanical, and possibly corrupt.
With “Skin Fruit: Selections From the Dakis Joannou Collection,” curated by the artist Jeff Koons, this much beloved yet deeply frustrating institution has crossed some invisible line, its already-thin credibility stretched to the breaking point.
In the foreground, mega-collector Dakis Joannou (among others) stands in front of a pike displaying the head of Jeff Koons, and artist Terrence Koh wears a fur coat as he crawls in the dirt, reaching for a loaf of bread.
Jeff Koons is in but not of that little club.
When it was announced in October that the New Museum would showcase Joannou’s famous collection of contemporary art — which includes stars like Maurizio Cattelan, Jeff Koons, Terence Koh, and Urs Fischer — that it would occupy three floors of the museum, and that it would be curated by none other than Mr. Koons (who has 40 works in Joannou’s collection), the art world cringed at the insiderness of it all.
When it was announced back in October that the New Museum would showcase billionaire mega-collector Dakis Joannou’s collection of contemporary art—which includes Maurizio Cattelan, Jeff Koons, Terence Koh, and Urs Fischer—and that it would be curated by Koons (who has 40 works in the collection), the art world cringed at the insiderness of it all.
Even Jeff Koons looks like he is making work that has no reason to be on this earth.
Since it first opened, in Soho, White Columns has shown scads of important work (Trisha Brown, Yvonne Rainer, Jeff Koons, Philip Glass).
Muniz’s show begins with a ballpoint-pen drawing of a rectangle next to a rectangular stack of plywood next to a photo of a rectangular form next to a rectangular base with a fly on it next to a plastic model of a hamburger not far from Jeff Koons’ hygienically sealed stack of vacuum cleaners.
What shocked the art world about Jeff Koons’s porn work was that he so fully and bizarrely crawled into its conventions that it seemed to sprout new conventions.
That said, one artist who has excelled at this Nouveau Versailles aesthetic—despite never working on a truly giant scale—is Jeff Koons.
I could have added Julian Schnabel; he’s a great New York huckster who gives people fits, but Jeff Koons goes him one better.
To his credit, Murakami’s eagerness to outmarket everyone makes artists like Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons seem decorous by comparison.
Jeff Koons is his usual cheery self-appreciative self, writing, “I have always enjoyed the way Popeye [which appears in the painting] has a dialog with different artists’ works”.
After all, Jeff Koons never  built his own gated communities in California, with houses and grounds in the  likeness of his paintings, with starting prices at $425,000.
(I think he's got an art bromance brewing with Jeff Koons.
Hirst synthesizes punk, Pop Art, Jeff Koons, Marcel Duchamp, Francis Bacon and Catholicism.
Carroll Dunham worked for Dorothea Rockburne  Barnaby Furnas worked for Carroll Dunham  Christopher Wool worked for Joel Shapiro  Josh Smith worked for Christopher Wool  Annette Lemieux worked for David Salle  Jackie Saccoccio worked for Christopher Wool  Alexander Ross worked for Julian Lethbridge  Sarah Morris worked for Jeff Koons  Jennifer Rubell worked for Koons  Tony Matelli worked for Koons  Carl Fudge worked for David Reed  Matthew Weinstein worked for Ross Bleckner  Darren Bader worked for Urs Fischer   Robb Pruitt worked for Richard Artschwager   Daphne Fitzpatrick worked for Robert Gober  Robert Gober worked for Jennifer Bartlett  Banks Violette worked for Robert Gober  Margaret Lee worked for Cindy Sherman  Rirkrit Tiravanija worked for Gretchen Bender  Udomsak Krisanamis worked for Rirkrit Tiravanija  Brice Marden worked for Robert Rauschenberg  Dorothea Rockburne worked for Robert Rauschenberg   Matt Magee worked for Robert Rauschenberg  Elizabeth Peyton worked for Ronald Jones  Haroon Mirza worked for Jeremy Deller  Matt Keegan worked for Elizabeth Peyton  Gabriel Orozco worked for Antony Gormley  Alexis Rockman worked for Ross Bleckner  Mark Handforth worked for Martin Kippenberg  Jutta Koether worked for Martin Kippenberger  Susan Jennings worked for Cindy Sherman  Robert Melee worked for Marilyn Minter  Ronnie Cutrone worked for Andy Warhol  George Condo worked for Andy Warhol  Elyn Zimmerman worked for James Turrell.
Since it first opened, in SoHo, White Columns has shown scads of important work (Trisha Brown, Yvonne Rainer, Jeff Koons, Philip Glass).
That said, one artist who has excelled at this Nouveau Versailles esthetic -- despite never working on a truly giant scale -- is Jeff Koons.
The show includes Jeff Koons, Peter Halley, Ashley Bickerton and the now-almost-forgotten Meyer Vaisman.
To his credit, Murakamis eagerness to outmarket everyone makes artists like Damien Hirst and Jeff Koons seem decorous by comparison.
Jeff Koons is his usual cheery self-appreciative self, writing, "I have always enjoyed the way Popeye [which appears in the painting] has a dialogue with different artists' works".
Yet it's easy to imagine why artists might participate in and control the branding of their own image, even if this branding sometimes takes over, as with Damien Hirst, Jeff Koons, Francesco Clemente or even Warhol -- who at some point in the late 1970s became a walking photo op.
It was at the off-site Arolsen, near Documenta in 1992, that Jeff Koons -- who had been excluded from that year's Documenta -- created his magnificent 40 foot topiary "Puppy".
