In 8 Possible Beginnings Walker provides a terrifying glimpse into what Miles Davis meant when he said, “If white people really knew what was on most black people’s minds, it would scare them to death”.
Weirdest of all is a 1991 painting by Miles Davis.
In the same way that you can hear pain in every note that Ray Charles, Johnny Cash, or Roy Orbison sang, or in everything that Miles Davis or Charlie Parker played, you can discern a stinging aspiration in every inch of Basquiat’s work.
I can hear it in Miles Davis; Jimi Hendrix’s “Voodoo Child”; the way the lead singer on “Louie Louie” barks, “Let’s give it to ’em right now”; and now in Tricky’s possessed song.
It is installed, and according to the artist “will be on view through eternity,” about 10 miles north of Chelsea, in a shady dale of one of the toniest cemeteries in America, Woodlawn in the Bronx—the resting place of six former New York mayors, various robber barons, ladies and gentlemen of the gilded age, congressmen, senators, a Supreme Court chief justice, victims of the Titanic, scalawags and their scions, as well as Herman Melville, Duke Ellington, Miles Davis, and Irving Berlin.
According to a cemetery official, Susan Olsen, who keenly observes that much of Woodlawn is “widows’ work” (many monuments were overseen by women), news of Memorial has spread: Cronin’s is now the third most visited grave site at Woodlawn, behind only Miles Davis and Duke Ellington.
Maybe, but more important, the artists in “Freestyle” seem to know two things: that James Baldwin was right when he said, “No true account of Black life can be contained in the English language,” and that Miles Davis was onto something when he said, “If white people really knew what was on most black people’s minds, it would scare them to death”.
These clumps are adorned with the names of Miles Davis, Diana Ross, James Brown, and Cassius Clay.
It’s got the shapeless fear, the electric euphoria, the aspirations, failures, and accidental entirety of it all: Jackie Robinson, Chuck Yeager, Joan Crawford, Miles Davis, Hollywood’s blacklist, and Howard Hughes’s Spruce Goose.
On Tuesday, he kept an appointment so he could be photographed with Miles Davis.
Miles Davis once told Greg Tate, “If you’re playing their music you’re wasting your time”.
18The high priestess of Americana returns with her third album, which she’s described as “surrealist” and inspired by “late-night Miles Davis drives”.
In 8 Possible Beginnings, Walker provides a terrifying glimpse into what Miles Davis meant when he said, "If white people really knew what was on most black people's minds, it would scare them to death".
