A quirky second-stringer from the start (the sculptural equivalent to George Condo, though Condo is more agile), Cemin found ways to impress.
Landers says these works were inspired by Magritte’s paintings of the late 1940s, but they’re oddly reminiscent of the early clown portraits of George Condo, as well as thrift-store art, and the keep-on-truckin’ cartooning of R. Crumb.
Saville seems to have realized this too; or maybe she just needed to change up her art so that here, with these paintings, which break into some new territory, she’s involved with a flatter, more imagistic and surreal fracturing of her models that recalls George Condo and Francis Bacon — but that still have a long way to go to be in the least bit gripping.
George Condo, “Double Heads / Black Paintings / Abstractions” Skarstedt, 550 West 21st Street Through November 8 George Condo’s pizzazz-packed paintings are fun to look at and look like they were fun to make.
There’s George Condo and of course that idiot savant Jeff Koons.
The artist George Condo went first, and I’m not really sure what happened then, but twelve minutes later, someone with a clipboard and a headset appeared and said “You’re next”.
At George Condo I went, “Eh, okay”.
Most Overrated: George Condo at the New Museum Collectors go batshit for him, and a recent New Yorker profile revealed that he gets driven around in a limo, loves gambling, hangs with the likes of Kanye West—who hit him up for some media-stunt album-cover art—and collects fancy French furniture.
Dear Jerry,Can you explain why so many people love the George Condo exhibition at the New Museum?
—Aaron HoltzDear Aaron,Among living artists, George Condo may be the most embraced by the powers that be.
Among living artists, George Condo may be the most embraced by the powers that be.
The cover of the New York Times Magazine features Pace art dealer Arnold Glimcher with his so-called "art world all-stars," all middle-aged white men, including John Chamberlain, Donald Judd, Chick Close, Robert Mangold, Joel Shapiro, Robert Ryman, George Condo and the over-the-hill Jim Dine.
