Not only is Ramírez the best of the so-called “Self-Taught” or “Outsider” artists–baldly limiting, not to mention bogus categories considering that on some level all artists are self-taught–but he ranks as among the greatest artists of the 20th century, along with three other so-called “outsiders,” Adolf Wölfli, Henry Darger, and Bill Traylor.
Forget about oddballs and kooks like Morandi and Florine Stettheimer; there’s no Adolf Wolfli, Bill Traylor, Martin Ramirez, or Henry Darger, all of whom rank among the greatest artists of the 20th century.
If forced to judge him by this designation, I’d place Wölfli behind only Martin Ramirez and Bill Traylor, and just ahead of Darger.
Brilliant outsiders like Henry Darger, Martin Ramirez, Adolf Wolfli, and Bill Traylor come to mind, as do graphic masters like Piranesi, Escher, Crumb, and Raymond Pettibon (who also paints walls).
An early proponent of UFO artist Ional Talpazon, Tobler included “outsiders” like Bill Traylor and Howard Finster alongside Whistler and Ryder in the reference book he edited for Phaidon Press, The American Art Book.
The idea that occurred to me was that during the 1940s some of the most creative American outsider artists of the century were working or beginning to work, among them Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, A.G. Rizzoli, and Bill Traylor, a freed slave.
"Bill Traylor" is at David Zwirner through February 15.
The art of Bill Traylor comes to us with the ghosts of slave ships, lynchings, chain gangs, Jim Crow, justice denied — an American night-story without end.
“Bill Traylor” is at David Zwirner through February 15.
Bill Traylor would blow a hole through the walls of the 1940s–1950s galleries.
To this day, most permanent collections exclude geniuses like Bill Traylor, Adolf Wölfli, Martin Ramírez, Henry Darger, to say nothing of Gee’s Bend quilts, Hilma Af Klint, Emma Kunz, Marsden Hartley, Louis Eilshemius, George Ohr, James Castle, Forrest Bess, Jess, Jay DeFeo, Ray Johnson, Jim Nutt, Asger Jorn, Beauford Delaney, Bob Thompson, Robert Colescott, Oyvind Fahlstrom, Konrad Klapheck, Paula Rego, and H.C. Westermann.
It is esoteric in its relentless focus on drawing, and you really have to get up close to these works to wholly imbibe them — which will be difficult given crowds; also Michelangelo’s are not works on paper that we love or covet like those of Seurat, van Gogh, Goya, Hiroshige, Wang Hui, Bill Traylor, or Rembrandt; Michelangelo leaves us thunderstruck, his work almost alien.
For my money, these two are among the five best American painters in history, along with  Marsden Hartley, Bill Traylor, and Kara Walker.
Should I even mention all the unfinished-looking works by North American so-called outsider artists Martín Ramírez, Henry Darger, and Bill Traylor?
He’d been a Democratic Party organizer in California and collected ceramics and outsider art (in fact, giving a great Bill Traylor drawing to MoMA).
We haven’t even mentioned what’s in store when we allow in some of the greatest visionaries of all time, Florine Stettheimer, Martín Ramírez, Henry Darger, Bill Traylor, and James Castle.
Almost every Bosch, Cézanne, Matisse, Alice Neel, Bill Traylor, Martín Ramírez, and Marsden Hartley that I’ve ever seen can flash like lightning at will.
In addition to the artists mentioned above, visionaries like Hilma af Klint, Emma Kunz, Bill Traylor, Adolf Wolfli, Martin Rameirez, Minnie Evans, John Kane, Clementine Hunter, Hector Hyppolite, and others must be integrated into the canon.
First, to see American museums merge insider and outsider, so that when I go to MoMA and the Whitney I see the visionary work of Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Bill Traylor, James Castle, and Thomas Chambers next to the artists of the modernist canon.
BEST RETROSPECTIVE (MAD GENIUS DIVISION)Martín RamírezThe American Folk Art Museum made the best of its narrow 53rd Street space by mounting a glorious retrospective of this visionary, who ranks with “outsider” giants like Bill Traylor, Henry Darger, and Adolf Wölfli.
First, to see American museums merge insider and outsider, so that when I go to MoMA and the Whitney I see the visionary work of Martin Ramirez, Henry Darger, Bill Traylor, James Castle and Thomas Chambers next to the artists of the modernist canon.
BEST RETROSPECTIVE (MAD GENIUS DIVISION)    Martín Ramírez The American Folk Art Museum made the best of its narrow 53rd Street space by mounting a glorious retrospective of this visionary, who ranks with "outsider" giants like Bill Traylor, Henry Darger and Adolf Wölfli.
Not only is Ramírez the best of the so-called "Self-Taught" or "Outsider" artists -- baldly limiting, not to mention bogus categories considering that on some level all artists are self-taught -- but he ranks as among the greatest artists of the 20th century, along with three other so-called "outsiders," Adolf Wölfli, Henry Darger and Bill Traylor.
Forget about oddballs and kooks like Morandi and Florine Stettheimer; there's no Adolf Wolfli, Bill Traylor, Martin Ramirez or Henry Darger, all of whom rank among the greatest artists of the 20th century.
