Staging a circus-like event in this conspicuously circus-like environment can’t help but make you think of alpha males like Richard Serra, Anselm Kiefer, Damien Hirst, and Julian Schnabel, all of whom have thrown their weight around this same space.
Nevertheless, excellent work has been made on this subject, notably by Anselm Kiefer, Jörg Immendorf, Christian Boltanski, and Art Spiegelman.
In 1979, it was Josef Beuys at the Guggenheim; in 1988, Anselm Kiefer received the full-on treatment at MOMA.
Along with his wife, the painter Nancy Spero—who also exhibits a fiercely independent, up-yours streak—Golub may also have paved the way for theatrical history painters like Anselm Kiefer, Jorg Immendorf, and, more recently, William Kentridge.
Five shows look good: “Sets and Situations,” “Actual Size”—which makes some nice points about scale, materialism, and illusion—”The Path of Resistance,” and especially “Counter Monuments and Memory,” in which Marcel Odenbach’s videotape, Annette Messager’s assemblage, and Anselm Kiefer’s The Red Sea combine to create a specter of history and a shadow of doubt.
The show includes Salle and Schnabel and deletes Eric Fischl and Robert Longo; it expunges Sandro Chia, Jorg Immendorf, and Markus Lupertz, opting for big kahunas like Clemente and Anselm Kiefer, around whom it treads lightly, inserting only a book by each.
Now the Met has discovered a third kind of contemporary art: Anselm Kiefer’s.
Longo was one of the art stars of the early part of the decade, emerging with artists like Julian Schnabel, Anselm Kiefer, Francesco Clemente, and all the other male painters.
Now I see Barney as a mystic bridge between the ambition, absurdity, first-person identity politics, and pseudo-autobiographical Arabian Nights fiction of 1980s artists like Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, Anselm Kiefer, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Martin Kippenberger and the populism, love of beauty, craft, dexterity with scales large and small, unusual materials, and grand activism of 1990s artists like Kara Walker, Pipilotti Rist, Olafur Eliasson, Thomas Hirschhorn, later Robert Gober, and even Richard Serra — who actually appeared in one of Barney’s films.
Artists like Cindy Sherman, Barbara Kruger, Richard Prince, Keith Haring, Jean-Michel Basquiat, Julian Schnabel, and Anselm Kiefer were ascendant.
That night I witnessed an elaborate dinner for art star Anselm Kiefer featuring writhing dancers, a floor covered in white sand, and raw pig served to millionaires.
Nearly all the other artists are usual suspects from the ­aesthetic-economic auction complex, blue-chippers like Damien Hirst, Takashi Murakami, Jeff Koons, Richard Prince, John Currin, Douglas Gordon, Anselm Kiefer, and Francesco Vezzoli.
Barney’s primitive, gluteal masses conjure alpha artists and romantics like Joseph Beuys, Anselm Kiefer, Cy Twombly, Richard Serra, and Julian Schnabel, as well as newcomers like Sterling Ruby and Jessica Jackson Hutchins (who once-upon-an-art-school may have been influenced by Barney).
Okay: The Anselm Kiefer show at Larry Gagosian: Thumbs-up?
So unironic, uncool, earnest, portentous, huge, and serious is Anselm Kiefer that it’s almost bad etiquette to like his work.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel, and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jorge Immendorff.
In 1972, she made a hilarious recording of herself doing birdcalls satirizing the names of famous male artists, screeching and chirping “Donald Judd,” “Vito Acconci,” “Anselm Kiefer”.
For the first time in years, I know students who appreciate Julian Schnabel and Anselm Kiefer unironically.
Anselm Kiefer’s 1972 picture of an empty wooden room isn’t only a painting of receding interior space; it’s the 27-year-old clearing the psychic skeletons from the attic and dreaming of an undiscovered room in the house of painting.
Barney’s primitive, gluteal masses conjure alpha artists and romantics like Joseph Beuys, Anselm Kiefer, Cy Twombly, Richard Serra and Julian Schnabel, as well as newcomers like Sterling Ruby and Jessica Jackson Hutchins (who once-upon-an-art-school may have been influenced by Barney).
So unironic, uncool, earnest, portentous, huge and serious is Anselm Kiefer that it’s almost bad etiquette to like his work.
Painting was being reborn in Germany, a rebirth that is roaring to this day, where his influences are visible in artists as disparate as Albert Oehlen, Neo Rauch, Anselm Kiefer, Rosemarie Trockel and the late Martin Kippenberger and Jörg Immendorff.
In 1972, she made a hilarious recording of herself doing birdcalls satirizing the names of famous male artists, screeching and chirping "Donald Judd," "Vito Acconci," "Anselm Kiefer".
She is known for showing top-tier non-Americans such as Marcel Broodthaers, Anselm Kiefer, Gerhard Richter, Jeff Wall, Maurizio Cattelan, Tony Craig, Richard Deacon, Rineke Dykstra, William Kentridge, Gabriel Orozco and Thomas Struth.
The following two years see the American debuts of German giants like Gerhard Richter, Sigmar Polke and Anselm Kiefer.
