We see Chris Ofili, Charles Ray, Alex Bag, Maurizio Cattelan, and Massimo Bartolini in bedrooms or hotels.
These new paintings don’t resemble but do have some of the wildness of Guston’s one-eyed beasts, and also share territory with Dana Schutz and Chris Ofili—both of whom count Fox, 41, as an inspiration.
It would begin with Mondrian, Stettheimer, and Picabia and proceed until we get to Chris Ofili, Kara Walker, and Steve McQueen.
Doing this might bring her into close proximity to Chris Ofili, but it would break her pattern and force her hand.
Her animated, painterly touch suggests Guston’s late paintings, and what Malcolm Morely, Peter Saul, Elizabeth Murray, Carroll Dunham, and Chris Ofili do when they’re on.
Also good are Kai Althoff, Shahzia Sikander, Ugo Rondinone, Jockum Nordstrom, and Chris Ofili, whose drawings of little faces have real voodoo.
As for newish work by Laura Owens, Chris Ofili, John Currin, or Kara Walker—forget it; according to “Open Ends,” they haven’t happened.
Currin’s is a transgressive, identity-driven art, like that of Kara Walker or Chris Ofili.
In the Myra Hindley slot this time is Chris Ofili’s Africanized The Holy Virgin Mary, one of whose breasts is adorned with a beaded clump of elephant dung.
Chris Ofili and Peter Doig, two of the best young painters around, will have back-to-back solo shows at Gavin Brown, while Casey Kaplan continues his imperfect but persistent rise to prominence with okay ephemerist-sculptor Ceal Foyer, and occasionally provocative conceptualist Jonathan Monk.
He’s also a little bit Chris Ofili and Verne Dawson (who should be better known) by way of visionaries Forrest Bess and Charles Burchfield.
It’s impossible when looking at his work not to sometimes think of modern artists like Cocteau, Picasso, and Kandinsky, as well as contemporary artists like Chris Ofili, Peter Doig, Chris Martin, Nicole Eisenman, even Mary Heilmann.
The best artist in Songs is Haiti’s Tomm El-Saieh who makes dreamy, subtly colored dot-and-dash-scapes, mapping abstract Chinese-like landscapes that evoke iridescent magnetic fields, incessant waves of water, and remind us of a more abstract Chris Ofili.
Chris Ofili is still fearless after all these years.
By 1990 artists like Jeff Koons, Rachel Whiteread, Chris Ofili, Gabriel Orozco, Andreas Gursky, Christopher Wool, Noland, and Damien Hirst appeared.
He showed artists like Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, Elizabeth Peyton, Rirkrit Tiravanija, and many others who have gone on to worldwide fame.
In that period I remember seeing Kara Walker’s first cut-out panoramas of antebellum black horror at the Drawing Center and knowing that a new American Goya was unleashed; Chris Ofili’s glittery, dotted, day-glo colored paintings with elephant dung of the Virgin Mary were wildly irrational, beautiful, shamanic.
Back then, along with varieties of neo-conceptual multiculturalism, identity-based art and installation, and nascent relational aesthetics, painting was primarily figurative — John Currin, Lisa Yuskavage, Marlene Dumas, Peter Doig, Chris Ofili, Luc Tuymans, etc.
“Chris Ofili: Night and Day” at the New MuseumWhile MoMA’s architectural spatial problems have to be judged as historically more damaging than any other American museum’s, the New Museum has surely the worst architectural interior exhibition spaces for rotating shows of contemporary art I’ve seen in this century.
This year, the museum staged three shows (a Chris Ofili show, a survey of art from the Arab world, and one devoted to the work of Pawel Althamer): Each fought back against this awful space and won.
The best of the three was the building-filling Chris Ofili show — a sensuous plunge into one of the most optically alive painters of the 1990s and one who, as this survey showed, evolved his style into ever more complex, risky places, always coming up with painterly pay dirt.
Highly admired, even loved in the art world, she is a lucid thinker and writer and has long been a remarkably perceptive curator, among the first proponents of early-1990s artists like John Currin, Luc Tuymans, Elizabeth Peyton, Gabriel Orozco, and Chris Ofili.
In 1993 in London, he started publishing projects with then-unknown artists like Peter Doig, Elizabeth Peyton, Chris Ofili, and Jeremy Deller, among others, and went on to write well about art for ArtForum, among other places, and was then a director of exhibitions at London’s storied ICA (the place where Pop Art was actually born).
This work echoes Chris Ofili’s later-period black palate and patterning.
Finally, when I wrote a few weeks ago that Chris Ofili’s paintings had “the lateral waggle of a swaggering pimp,” I was again called a racist.
I’d genuinely love to see Chris Ofili or Sarah Lucas get a crack at Kate.
)But is it art, this potty spectacle of a white man ridiculing the work of black artist Andrès Serrano, placing a black man in a jar of urine (while also attacking the work of black artist Chris Ofili as an aside)?
And the prototype for all New York art scandals to come was not over Chris Ofili or Robert Mapplethorpe but the 1913 Armory Show.
Curator X was just here, I learn, while the art was being packed for Biennial Y. “Artists especially” like this work — Chuck Close, or Chris Ofili, or Maurizio or Klaus or Brice.
Blogs blasted me as a sellout and fraud; one called the show “a glitter-dipped, shellacked turd” (sounds like a Chris Ofili painting); another said it “promulgates a massive deception that out-deceives all other reality programs”.
Among other accomplishments, Brown was the first New York gallerist to mount solo shows of Chris Ofili, Jake and Dino Chapman, Piotr Uklanski, and Anselm Reyle.
Devil’s Pie           Chris Ofili.
That’s happening right now to the Raymond Pettibon show next door to the double Chris Ofili outing.
Curator X was just here, I learn, while the art was being packed for Biennial Y. "Artists especially" like this work -- Chuck Close, or Chris Ofili, or Maurizio or Klaus or Brice.
Blogs blasted me as a sellout and fraud; one called the  show "a glitter-dipped, shellacked turd" (sounds like a Chris Ofili painting);  another said it "promulgates a massive deception that out-deceives all other  reality programs".
Among other accomplishments, Brown was the first New York gallerist to mount solo shows of Chris Ofili, Jake and Dinos Chapman, Piotr Uklanski and Anselm Reyle.
We see Chris Ofili, Charles Ray, Alex Bag, Maurizio Cattelan and Massimo Bartolini in bedrooms or hotels.
