In 1971, Wegman began photographing Man Ray, the regal, agile, hammy weimaraner he bought for $35 after tossing a coin (“Tails it’s the dog”) who he almost named Bauhaus, but didn’t because he wasn’t “black and white and square”.
The first pictures of him are simple, sweet, and smart—black-and-white studio shots of the dog as art object (Man Ray contemplating a bust of himself, licking milk off the floor, or posing on pedestals).
He photographed Man Ray (who died in 1982) repeatedly.
In 1982, this paper dubbed Man Ray “Man of the Year”.
In 1983, Sanford Schwartz called Wegman’s collection of Man Ray pictures, Man’s Best Friend, “the most original book of photographs since Robert Frank’s The Americans”.
Other high points include the photography of Claude Cahun, Man Ray, and Hans Bellmer (looking more kinky and contemporary than ever), and the amazing face-off between Giacometti and Picasso.
Regular guests included figures from the country’s first avant-garde, artists and writers like Marcel Duchamp, Man Ray, Marsden Hartley, Carl Van Vechten, Gaston Lachaise, Alfred Stieglitz, Georgia O’Keeffe, Pavel Tchelitchew, Virgil Thomson, and many others.
In her memoir, we hear how she and Ernst fell in love while playing chess, how the two of them lived in Arizona before moving to France, of their double wedding with Man Ray and Juliet Browner, of her friendships with Picasso, Breton, Magritte (“sweet”), Duchamp, Tanguy, Truman Capote (“a neat little package of dynamite”), Orson Welles (“scowler”), Joseph Cornell ("the courtly love of the 13th century troubadours”), and how she designed sets and costumes for the great George Balanchine.
This ensemble is titled La Fortune (After Man Ray) and apes a 1938 Man Ray painting of (you guessed it) a billiard table with (right again) three balls in this exact arrangement.
In her memoir, we hear how she and Ernst fell in love while playing chess, how the two of them lived in Arizona before moving to France, of their double wedding with Man Ray and Juliet Browner, of her friendships with Picasso, Breton, Magritte ("sweet"), Duchamp, Tanguy, Truman Capote ("a neat little package of dynamite"), Orson Welles ("scowler"), Joseph Cornell ("the courtly love of the 13th-century troubadours"), and how she designed sets and costumes for the great George Balanchine.
