Jeff Wall is named on three lists.
Robert Mapplethorpe is excluded, as if to say his main importance was in the controversy his work generated; this thought is then negated with inclusions—like Judith Barry and Jeff Wall—that suggest only the theoretically correct need apply.
She is a mix of many photographers, including Jeff Wall, Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Sally Mann, Julia Margaret Cameron, or occasionally (as when she dabbles in the macabre) her teacher Gregory Crewdson; and though she comes out of Sherman’s film-still aesthetic, Kurland’s “stills” are writ large.
Consisting mainly of photographs and text, it included Vito Acconci, Art & Language, Daniel Buren, Jan Dibbets, Hans Haacke, Dennis Oppenheim, Edward Ruscha, Robert Smithson, and Jeff Wall—all of whom are in this show.
Artists like Andreas Gursky, Thomas Struth, and Thomas Ruff (so ubiquitous in the 1990s that I collectively called them Struffsky; I got a nasty note from one of them), and Canadians like Jeff Wall and Rodney Graham, all took photography toward movies, billboards, storytelling, history painting, and high-production values.
His perfect dolls, meticulous handmade clothes, and fetishistic scenery pave the way to a broad swath of contemporary photographers like Jeff Wall, Laurie Simmons, and Gregory Crewdson.
Jeff Wall has talked about how painting a person is “the simultaneous trace of two bodies and so is inherently erotic”.
The figures and lighting owe much to photographers like Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Gregory Crewdson, and Jeff Wall.
She is known for showing top-tier non-Americans such as Marcel Broodthaers, Anselm Kiefer, Gerhard Richter, Jeff Wall, Maurizio Cattelan, Tony Craig, Richard Deacon, Rineke Dykstra, William Kentridge, Gabriel Orozco and Thomas Struth.
This extraordinarily constructed image can be seen as a predecessor for numerous set-up photographers, including Jeff Wall and Cindy Sherman.
His perfect dolls, meticulous handmade clothes, and fetishistic scenery pave the way to a broad swath of contemporary photographers like Jeff Wall, Laurie Simmons and Gregory Crewdson.
Jeff Wall has talked about how painting a person is "the simultaneous trace of two bodies and so is inherently erotic".
The figures and lighting owe much to photographers like Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Gregory Crewdson and Jeff Wall.
