My opening-month fave is Pipilotti Rist’s walk-in reverie at Luhring Augustine.
Sue De Beer, Jon Kessler, John Bock, and Pipilotti Rist are hybrids who make drunk art about stoned things.
If I could change the gist of only one review, I would write more about how magical Pipilotti Rist’s invitation-only Luhring Augustine opening was, and less on how the show weakened over the course of my 17 visits.
Part of P.S.1’s cool new “Buzz Club: News From Japan” (22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, through September 9), this MTV-inspired work doesn’t have the emotional depth of Ugo Rondinone’s or Pipilotti Rist’s best efforts, and you forget what you’ve seen in seconds, but it’s an eye- and earful, nevertheless.
Now I see Barney as a mystic bridge between the ambition, absurdity, first-person identity politics, and pseudo-autobiographical Arabian Nights fiction of 1980s artists like Cindy Sherman, Robert Gober, Anselm Kiefer, Jean-Michel Basquiat, and Martin Kippenberger and the populism, love of beauty, craft, dexterity with scales large and small, unusual materials, and grand activism of 1990s artists like Kara Walker, Pipilotti Rist, Olafur Eliasson, Thomas Hirschhorn, later Robert Gober, and even Richard Serra — who actually appeared in one of Barney’s films.
Pipilotti Rist, “Pixel Forest” Oct.
Pipilotti Rist made a movie.
We went to the lower level, there was a room with a video by Pipilotti Rist, I guess, and she started a shy hand job in the dark.
Another one — and I fell hard for it — was Pipilotti Rist’s video, which didn’t feature any live bodies but became such a smash that the space was filled with people at all times, lying on the floor, resting on couches, sitting against walls, just drifting to blissful hallucinogenic images and music as one mind.
At Luhring Augustine, the mistress of bliss, queen of color, sultana of video installation — the inimitable Pipilotti Rist.
Pipilotti Rist’s burning color becomes the morphing of alternative universes, and Matthew Barney’s crawling through Vaseline makes the malleability of space palpable.
In the closing days of Pour Your Body Out (7354 Meters), Pipilotti Rist’s ravishing wraparound video atrium installation at MoMA, the place has been packed every day.
The deliciously named Swiss miss Pipilotti Rist, who for two decades has been ravishing viewers with her fiesta-colored video visions, has risen to new heights of trippy bliss.
Pipilotti Rist.
At Luhring Augustine, the mistress of bliss, queen of color, sultana of video installation -- the inimitable Pipilotti Rist.
