In 1955 Rauschenberg shattered preconceptions with Bed, a painting done on a quilt given to him by artist Dorothea Rockburne.
As with post-minimalists and conceptualists like Dorothea Rockburne, Mel Bochner, Barry Le Va, and Sol LeWitt, Siena, 46, contrives rules and follows them.
Reducing art to various essences, taking it to aesthetic ground zeros, LeWitt drew on walls, Barry LeVa ran into them, Mel Bochner measured space, Joseph Kosuth exhibited definitions, Dorothea Rockburne folded paper, and On Kawara counted.
Dorothea Rockburne didn’t even make the catalog.
Rhapsody is dumb but never dry; there’s a lot of Sol LeWitt and Dorothea Rockburne in it, but it isn’t logical—it’s wild, out of control, it has personality, subjectivity, and feeling.
In measuring out and scaling space, this way Guyton picks up on post-minimalists like Dorothea Rockburne, Barry LeVa, and Mel Bochner, all of whom filled up empty spaces with material that defined, deconstructed, or questioned ideas of art and its marketing.
Where are the surveys of Lynda Benglis, Dorothea Rockburne, Adrian Piper, and Sturtevant?
Lynda Benglis ties canvas in knots, Jackie Winsor lashes logs together with twine to make a Paleolithic stretcher, Dorothea Rockburne creates chipboard grids (a Rockburne survey is overdue), and Lee Bontecou quite simply presents what looks like the mouth of hell, the eye of a Cyclops, the surface of the moon, and a vagina dentata in a relief painting that still has the power to terrify, entice, and awe.
Where are the surveys of Lynda Benglis, Dorothea Rockburne, Adrian Piper and Sturtevant?
Lynda Benglis ties canvas in knots, Jackie Winsor lashes logs together with twine to make a Paleolithic stretcher, Dorothea Rockburne creates chipboard grids (a Rockburne survey is overdue) and Lee Bontecou quite simply presents what looks like the mouth of hell, the eye of a Cyclops, the surface of the moon, and a vagina dentata in a relief painting that still has the power to terrify, entice, and awe.
Meanwhile, Barry LeVa ran into them, Mel Bochner measured space, Joseph Kosuth exhibited definitions, Dorothea Rockburne folded paper and On Kawara counted.
