Who was in this crowd of about 1,500 people — including every Whitney staff person and many guards and kids, and no Lady Gaga, James Franco, Tilda Swinton, or Marina sightings that I know of?
At MoMA, we’ve had overhyped, badly done shows of Björk and Tim Burton, the Rain Room selfie trap, and the daylong spectacle of Tilda Swinton sleeping in a glass case.
I wrote then that all belong in a museum, but added, “MoMA [is] destroying its credibility … in its self-suicidal slide into a box-office-driven carnival … Tilda Swinton sleeping in a glass vitrine, Queen Marina staring at smitten viewers in the atrium, the trashy Tim Burton show, last season’s gee-whiz Rain Room, and of course the wrecking ball Diller Scofidio + Renfro is about to swing”.
I think that what Waters was referring to is that whenever anyone as famous as he is enters the art world as an artist, be it James Franco, Jay Z, or Tilda Swinton, the art world usually recoils, blasting their efforts, deeming their mere presence dirty and crass.
Tilda Swinton sleeping in a glass vitrine; Queen Marina staring at smitten viewers in the atrium; the trashy Tim Burton show; last season’s gee-whiz Rain Room; and of course, the wrecking ball Diller Scofidio + Renfro is about to swing: All are signs of a deep institutional rot.
Last season at MoMA — which is addicted to the genre — Tilda Swinton slept in a glass box for an all-day performance.
When I heard that he’d cooperated with these dueling shows, just a year before the Whitney’s big 2014 survey of his work, I thought the museum should cancel the whole thing, and let MoMA put Koons in a box with a sleeping Tilda Swinton and a staring Marina Abramovic amid a yard sale in the atrium and be done with it.
Over the weekend, in the latest twist on whatever-it-takes to get them in the doors while presumably showing a little intellectual leg, Tilda Swinton napped inside a glass case just off the museum’s atrium.
)On the other hand, it’s fine that MoMA and Tilda Swinton have a jones for being looked at, being risqué, and being fun.
